SITUATIONAL TOPIC 1 
A surgeon needs to grasp and hold delicate tissue during a laparoscopic procedure. Which 
instrument is MOST appropriate?{ 
=Grasping forceps 
~Scalpel 
~Hemostat 
~Mayo scissors 
~Retractor 
} 
During an open appendectomy, the surgeon needs to control bleeding from small blood vessels. 
Which instrument is BEST suited for this purpose?{ 
=Hemostat 
~Scalpel 
~Scissors 
~Forceps 
~Retractor 
} 
A patient is scheduled for a cholecystectomy ,This procedure involves:{ 
=Removal of the gallbladder 
~Removal of the appendix 
~Removal of the spleen 
~Removal of the liver 
~Removal of the pancreas 
} 
A surgeon is performing a laparotomy (abdominal exploration) and needs to create an incision 
through the skin and subcutaneous tissue. Which instrument is used to make the initial skin 
incision?{ 
=Scalpel 
~Scissors 
~Forceps 
~Hemostat 
~Retractor 
} 
During a surgical procedure, the term "anastomosis" refers to:{ 
=Surgical connection between two structures (e.g., blood vessels or bowel segments) 
~Removal of a structure 
~Repair of a structure 
~Cutting of a structure 
~Examination of a structure 
} 
What is the correct way to hold a scalpel? (Select all that apply){ 
=The pencil grip , the overhand/fingertip grip 
~Left hand 
~Wright hand 
~The scalpel grip 
~There is no incorrect way 
} 
In what hand should you hold your scalpel?{ 
=The dominant hand 
~The in-dominant hand 
~Always the right hand 
~Always the left hand 
~Both hands 
} 
When and for how lang must you apply hand disinfectant?{ 
=Two minutes before every surgery 
~Five minutes before every surgery 
~Two minutes before your first surgery only 
~Five minutes before your first surgery only 
~Ten minutes before every surgery 
} 
What should you ALWAYS wear entering the operation room? (Select all that apply){ 
=Scrub cap 
~Sterile gloves 
~Sterile scrubs 
~Surgical mask 
~Sterile apron 
} 
What forceps is used to hold sensitive tissue like nerves?{ 
=The anatomical forceps 
~The tissue forceps 
~The adson forceps 
~The langenbeck forceps 
~The surgical forceps 
} 
What is a pean used to?{ 
=To clamp blood vessels for haemostasis 
~To retract soft tissue exposing the surgical site 
~To provide a solide grip on tissue 
~To cut sutures? 
~Incision of the organ 
} 
What does amputation means?{ 
=Removal of  the limbs 
~Incision of the limbs 
~Excision pathological process 
~Incision of the abdominal wall 
~Stitching of the tissue 
} 
What does mean rraphy?{ 
=Stitching of the organs wall 
~Removal part of the organs 
~Excision pathological process 
~Incision of the limbs 
~Fixation of the tissue 
} 
What does mean laparotomy?{ 
=Incision of the abdominal wall 
~Removal tissue 
~Stitching abdominal wall 
~Excision organ 
~Viewing organ with instruments 
} 
What does mean cholecystectomy?{ 
=Removal of the gall bladder 
~Removal intestine 
~Removal liver 
~Removal uterus 
~Removal kidney 
} 
SITUATIONAL TOPIC 2 
t.v/Topic 2 
A patient with Bennett fracture (a fracture of the base of the first metacarpal bone) experiences an 
impaired thumb movement. Which of the following intrinsic muscles of the thumb is most likely 
injured? 
Opponens pollicis  
Abductor pollicis brevis 
Flexor pollicis brevis (superficial head) 
Adductor pollicis 
Flexor pollicis brevis (deep head) 
A 27-year-old pianist with a known carpal tunnel syndrome experiences difficulty in finger 
movements. Which of the   following intrinsic muscles of her hand is paralyzed? 
Lateral two lumbricals and opponens 
Palmar interossei and adductor pollicis 
Dorsal interossei  
Abductor pollicis brevis and palmar 
interossei 
Medial two and lateral two lumbricals 
A 31-year-old roofer walks in with tenosynovitis resulting from a deep penetrated wound in the palm 
by a big nail. Examination indicates that he has an infection in the ulnar bursa. This infection most 
likely resulted in necrosis of which of the following tendons? 
Tendon of the flexor digitorum profundus 
Tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris  
Tendon of the flexor pollicis longus  
Tendon of the flexor carpi radialis  
Tendon of the palmaris longus 
An 18-year-old boy involved in an automobile accident presents with an arm that cannot 
abduct. His paralysis is caused by damage to which of the following nerves? 
Suprascapular and axillary 
Thoracodorsal and upper subscapular 
Axillary and musculocutaneous 
Radial and lower subscapular 
Suprascapular and dorsal scapular 
A 17-year-old boy with a stab wound received multiple injuries on the upper part of the arm and 
required surgery. If the brachial artery were ligated at its origin, which of the following arteries would 
supply blood to the profunda brachii artery? 
Posterior humeral circumflex 
Lateral thoracic 
Subscapular 
Superior ulnar collateral 
Radial recurrent 
A man is unable to hold typing paper between his index and middle fingers. Which of the following 
nerves was likely injured? 
Ulnar nerve 
Radial nerve  
Median nerve  
Musculocutaneous nerve  
Axillary nerve 
The victim of an automobile accident has a destructive injury of the proximal row of carpal bones. 
Which of the following bones is most likely damaged?  
Triquetrum 
Capitate  
Hamate 
Trapezium  
Trapezoid 
A patient has a torn rotator cuff of the shoulder joint as the result of an automobile accident. Which 
of the following muscle tendons is intact and has normal function? 
Teres major 
Supraspinatus  
Subscapularis  
Teres minor 
Infraspinatus 
A patient complains of having pain with repeated movements of his thumb (claudication). His 
physician performs the Allen test and finds an insufficiency of the radial artery. Which of the 
following conditions would be a result of the radial artery stenosis? 
A marked decrease in the blood flow in the princeps pollicis artery 
A marked decrease in the blood flow in the superficial palmar arterial arch 
Decreased pulsation in the artery passing superficial to the flexor retinaculum 
Ischemia of the entire extensor muscles of the forearm 
A low blood pressure in the anterior interosseous artery 
A patient bleeding from the shoulder secondary to a knife wound is in fair condition because there is 
vascular anastomosis around the shoulder. Which of the following arteries is most likely a direct 
branch of the subclavian artery that is involved in the anastomosis? 
Dorsal scapular artery  
Thoracoacromial artery  
Circumflex scapular artery  
Transverse cervical artery 
A 20-year-old man fell from the parallel bar during the Olympic trial. A neurologic examination 
reveals that he has a lesion of the lateral cord of the brachial plexus. Which of the following muscles 
is most likely weakened by 
this injury?  
Pectoralis major 
Subscapularis  
Teres major  
Latissimus dorsi  
Teres minor  
A 24-year-old carpenter suffers a crush injury of his entire little finger. Which of the following muscles 
is most likely to be spared? 
Dorsal interossei 
Flexor digitorum profundus  
Extensor digitorum  
Palmar interossei  
Lumbricals 
A patient presents with a stab wound to the anterior forearm, resulting in loss of wrist flexion and 
weakness in pronation. Which nerve is MOST likely injured?{ 
=Median nerve 
~Radial nerve 
~Ulnar nerve 
~Musculocutaneous nerve 
~Axillary nerve 
} 
A patient falls on an outstretched hand, resulting in a fracture of the distal radius with dorsal 
displacement. This is commonly known as a:{ 
=Colles' fracture 
~Smith's fracture 
~Scaphoid fracture 
~Hamate fracture 
~Monteggia fracture 
} 
A surgeon is performing a carpal tunnel release. The primary goal of this procedure is to decompress 
the:{ 
=Median nerve 
~Radial nerve 
~Ulnar nerve 
~Flexor carpi radialis tendon 
~Palmaris longus tendon 
} 
A patient sustains a deep laceration to the medial aspect of the forearm, just proximal to the wrist. 
Which artery is MOST at risk of injury?{ 
=Ulnar artery 
~Radial artery 
~Anterior interosseous artery 
~Posterior interosseous artery 
~Brachial artery 
} 
A patient presents with difficulty extending the fingers at the metacarpophalangeal joints and wrist 
drop. Which nerve is likely affected, often due to injury in the radial groove of the humerus or during 
procedures on the forearm?{ 
=Radial nerve 
~Median nerve 
~Ulnar nerve 
~Musculocutaneous nerve 
~Axillary nerve 
} 
SITUATIONAL TOPIC 3 
t.v./ Topic 3 
A 21-year-old patient has a lesion of the upper trunk of the brachial plexus (Erb–Duchenne paralysis). 
Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis? 
Arm tending to lie in medial rotation 
Paralysis of the rhomboid major 
Inability to elevate the arm above the horizontal 
Loss of sensation on the medial side of the arm 
Inability to adduct the thumb 
A patient comes in with a gunshot wound and requires surgery in which his thoracoacromial trunk 
needs to be ligated. Which of the following arterial branches would maintain normal blood flow?  
Superior thoracic 
Acromia 
Pectoral 
Clavicular  
Deltoid 
A 29-year-old man comes in with a stab wound, cannot raise his arm above horizontal, and exhibits a 
condition known as “winged scapula.” Which of the following structures of the brachial plexus would 
most likely be damaged? 
Roots  
Medial cord 
Posterior cord 
Lower trunk  
Upper trunk 
A 16-year-old patient has weakness flexing the metacarpophalangeal joint of the ring finger and is 
unable to adduct the same finger. Which of the following muscles is most likely paralyzed? 
Palmar interosseous 
Flexor digitorum profundus  
Extensor digitorum  
Lumbrical 
Dorsal interosseous  
A 27-year-old patient presents with an inability to draw the scapula forward and downward because 
of paralysis of the pectoralis minor. Which of the following would most likely be a cause of his 
condition? 
Fracture of the coracoid process 
Fracture of the clavicle 
Injury to the posterior cord of the brachial plexus 
Fracture of the coracoid process 
Axillary nerve injury 
A 22-year-old patient received a stab wound in the chest that injured the intercostobrachial nerve. 
Which of the following conditions results from the described lesion of the nerve? 
Loss of sensory fibers from the second intercostal nerve Inability to move the ribs 
Loss of tactile sensation on the lateral aspect of the arm 
Absence of sweating on the posterior aspect of the arm 
Loss of sensory fibers from the second intercostal nerve 
Damage to the sympathetic preganglionic fibers 
A 16-year-old boy fell from a motorcycle, and his radial nerve was severely damaged because of a 
fracture of the midshaft of the humerus. Which of the following conditions would most likely result 
from this accident? 
Loss of wrist extension leading to wrist drop 
Weakness in pronating the forearm 
Sensory loss over the ventral aspect of the base of the thumb   
Inability to oppose the thumb  
Inability to abduct the fingers 
A patient comes in complaining that she cannot flex her proximal interphalangeal joints. Which of 
the following muscles appear(s) to be paralyzed on further examination of her finger? 
Flexor digitorum superficialis  
Palmar interossei 
Dorsal interossei   
Flexor digitorum profundus 
Lumbricals 
A 21-year-old woman walks in with a shoulder and arm injury after falling during horseback riding. 
Examination indicates that she cannot adduct her arm because of paralysis of which of the following 
muscles?  
Latissimus dorsi  
Teres minor 
Supraspinatus 
Infraspinatus  
Serratus anterior 
A 35-year-old man walks in with a stab wound to the most medial side of the proximal portion of the 
cubital fossa. Which of the following structures would most likely be damaged? 
Median nerve 
Biceps brachii tendon 
Radial nerve 
Brachial artery 
Radial recurrent artery 
A 7-year-old boy falls from a tree house and is brought to the emergency department of a local 
hospital. On examination, he has weakness in rotating his arm laterally because of an injury of a 
nerve. Which of the following conditions is most likely to cause a loss of this nerve function? 
Inferior dislocation of the head of the humerus 
Injury to the lateral cord of the brachial plexus 
Fracture of the anatomic neck of the humerus 
Knife wound on the teres major muscle 
A tumor in the triangular space in the shoulder region 
A 49-year-old woman is diagnosed as having a large lump in her right breast. Lymph from the 
cancerous breast drains primarily into which of the following nodes? 
Anterior (pectoral) nodes 
Apical nodes 
Parasternal (internal thoracic) nodes  
Supraclavicular nodes 
Nodes of the anterior abdominal wall 
A patient presents with a stab wound to the anterior forearm, resulting in loss of wrist flexion and 
weakness in pronation. Which nerve is MOST likely injured?{ 
=Median nerve 
~Radial nerve 
~Ulnar nerve 
~Musculocutaneous nerve 
~Axillary nerve 
} 
A patient falls on an outstretched hand, resulting in a fracture of the distal radius with dorsal 
displacement. This is commonly known as a:{ 
=Colles' fracture 
~Smith's fracture 
~Scaphoid fracture 
~Hamate fracture 
~Monteggia fracture 
} 
A surgeon is performing a carpal tunnel release. The primary goal of this procedure is to decompress 
the:{ 
=Median nerve 
~Radial nerve 
~Ulnar nerve 
~Flexor carpi radialis tendon 
~Palmaris longus tendon 
} 
A patient sustains a deep laceration to the medial aspect of the forearm, just proximal to the wrist. 
Which artery is MOST at risk of injury?{ 
=Ulnar artery 
~Radial artery 
~Anterior interosseous artery 
~Posterior interosseous artery 
~Brachial artery 
} 
A patient presents with difficulty extending the fingers at the metacarpophalangeal joints and wrist 
drop. Which nerve is likely affected, often due to injury in the radial groove of the humerus or during 
procedures on the forearm?{ 
=Radial nerve 
~Median nerve 
~Ulnar nerve 
~Musculocutaneous nerve 
~Axillary nerve 
} 
SITUATIONAL TOPIC 4 
t.v./Topic 4 
A 27-year-old patient exhibits a loss of skin sensation and paralysis of muscles on the plantar aspect 
of the medial side of the foot. Which of the following nerves is most likely damaged? 
Tibia 
Common peroneal 
Superficial peroneal  
Deep peroneal 
Sural 
A patient with a deep knife wound in the buttock walks with a waddling gait that is characterized by 
the pelvis falling toward one side at each step. Which of the following nerves is damaged? 
Superior gluteal nerve  
Femoral nerve 
Obturator nerve 
Nerve to obturator internus  
Inferior gluteal nerve  
A patient is unable to prevent anterior displacement of the femur on the tibia when the 
knee is flexed. Which of the following ligaments is most likely damaged? 
Posterior cruciate 
Anterior cruciate  
Fibular collateral  
Patellar  
Tibial collateral 
A 41-year-old man was involved in a fight and felt weakness in extending the knee joint. On 
examination, he was diagnosed with a lesion of the femoral nerve. Which of the following symptoms 
would be a result of this nerve damage? 
Paralysis of the vastus lateralis muscle 
Paralysis of the psoas major muscle 
Loss of skin sensation on the lateral side of the foot 
Loss of skin sensation over the greater trochanter 
Paralysis of the tensor fasciae latae 
A 47-year-old woman is unable to invert her foot after she stumbled on her driveway. Which of the 
following nerves are most likely injured? 
Deep peroneal and tibial 
Superficial and deep peroneal 
Superficial peroneal and tibial  
Medial and lateral plantar  
Obturator and tibial 
A 22-year-old patient is unable to “unlock” the knee joint to permit flexion of the leg. Which of the 
following muscles is most likely damaged? 
Popliteus 
Rectus femoris  
Semimembranosus  
Gastrocnemius  
Biceps femoris 
A patient presents with sensory loss on adjacent sides of the great and second toes and 
impaired dorsiflexion of the foot. These signs probably indicate damage to which of the 
following nerves?  
Deep peroneal 
Superficial peroneal  
Lateral plantar  
Sural 
Tibial 
A motorcyclist falls from his bike in an accident and gets a deep gash that severs the superficial 
peroneal nerve near its origin. Which of  the following muscles is paralyzed?  
Peroneus longus  
Extensor hallucis longus  
Extensor digitorum longus  
Peroneus tertius 
Extensor digitorum brevis 
A 52-year-old woman slipped and fell and now complains of being unable to extend her leg at the 
knee joint. Which off the following muscles was paralyzed as a result of this accident? 
Gracilis 
Semitendinosus 
Sartorius 
Quadriceps femoris 
Biceps femoris 
A patient experiences weakness in dorsiflexing and inverting the foot. Which of the following 
muscles is damaged? 
Tibialis anterior 
Peroneus longus  
Peroneus brevis 
Extensor digitorum longus  
Peroneus tertius 
Fracture of the neck of the femur results in avascular necrosis of the femoral head, probably resulting 
from lack of blood supply from which of the following arteries? 
Medial femoral circumflex 
Obturator 
Superior gluteal  
Inferior gluteal  
Lateral femoral circumflex 
If the acetabulum is fractured at its posterosuperior margin by dislocation of the hip joint, which of 
the following bones could be involved? 
Ilium 
Pubis  
Ischium  
Sacrum  
Head of the femur 
A patient presents with weakness in hip flexion and knee extension after a pelvic fracture. Which 
nerve is MOST likely injured?{ 
=Femoral nerve 
~Obturator nerve 
~Sciatic nerve 
~Superior gluteal nerve 
~Inferior gluteal nerve 
} 
A patient sustains a deep laceration to the anterior thigh. Which muscle is MOST likely to be affected, 
leading to difficulty extending the knee?{ 
=Quadriceps femoris 
~Hamstrings 
~Adductors 
~Gluteals 
~Sartorius 
} 
A surgeon is performing a femoral artery catheterization. Which anatomical landmark is used to 
locate the femoral artery within the femoral triangle?{ 
=Mid-inguinal point (midpoint between the anterior superior iliac spine and pubic symphysis) 
~Midpoint of the inguinal ligament 
~Femoral head 
~Pubic tubercle 
~Ischial tuberosity 
} 
A patient presents with medial thigh pain and difficulty adducting the thigh. Which nerve is MOST 
likely involved?{ 
=Obturator nerve 
~Femoral nerve 
~Sciatic nerve 
~Superior gluteal nerve 
~Inferior gluteal nerve 
} 
A patient experiences numbness and tingling along the lateral aspect of the thigh. Which nerve is 
MOST likely compressed or irritated?{ 
=Lateral femoral cutaneous nerve 
~Femoral nerve 
~Obturator nerve 
~Sciatic nerve 
~Ilioinguinal nerve 
} 
TOPIC 5 
t.v./Topic 5 
A patient experiences paralysis of the muscle that originates from the femur and contributes directly 
to the stability of the knee joint. Which of the following muscles is involved? 
Vastus lateralis 
Semimembranosus 
Sartorius 
Biceps femoris (long head)  
Rectus femoris 
A patient is involved in a motorcycle wreck that results in avulsion of the skin over the anterolateral 
leg and ankle. Which of the following structures is most likely destroyed with this type of injury? 
Superficial peroneal nerve 
Deep peroneal nerve 
Extensor digitorum longus muscle tendon  
Dorsalis pedis artery 
Great saphenous vein 
A knife wound penetrates the superficial vein that terminates in the popliteal vein. Bleeding occurs 
from which of the following vessels? 
Lesser saphenous vein 
Posterior tibial vein  
Anterior tibial vein 
Peroneal vein  
Great saphenous vein  
A 10-year-old boy falls from a tree house. 
The resultant heavy compression of the sole of 
his foot against the ground caused a fracture 
of the head of the talus. Which of the following 
structures is unable to function normally? 
Medial longitudinal arch 
Transverse arch 
Lateral longitudinal arch  
Tendon of the peroneus longus  
Long plantar ligament 
A 24-year-old woman complains of weakness when she extends her thigh and rotates 
it laterally. Which of the following muscles is 
paralyzed? 
Gluteus maximus 
Obturator externus  
Sartorius 
Tensor fasciae latae  
Gluteus maximus  
Semitendinosus 
A patient with hereditary blood clotting problems presents with pain in the back of her knee. An 
arteriograph reveals a blood clot in the popliteal artery at its proximal end. Which of the following 
arteries will allow blood to reach the foot? 
Lateral circumflex femoral  
Anterior tibial 
Posterior tibial  
Peroneal 
Superior medial genicular 
A 72-year-old woman complains of a cramplike pain in her thigh and leg. She was diagnosed as 
having a severe intermittent claudication. Following surgery, an infection was found in the adductor 
canal, damaging the enclosed structures. Which of the following structures remains intact?  
Great saphenous vein   
Femoral artery  
Femoral vein  
Saphenous nerve  
Nerve to the vastus medialis 
A basketball player was hit in the thigh by an opponent’s knee. Which of the following arteries is 
likely to compress and cause ischemia because of the bruise and damage to the extensor muscles of 
the leg?  
Anterior tibial 
Popliteal  
Deep femoral 
Posterior tibial  
Peroneal 
An elderly woman fell at home and fractured the greater trochanter of her femur. Which of the 
following muscles would continue to function normally?  
Gluteus maximus 
Piriformis  
Obturator internus 
Gluteus medius  
Gluteus minimus 
A 20-year-old college student receives a severe blow on the inferolateral side of the left knee joint 
while playing football. Radiographic examination reveals a fracture of the head and neck of the 
f
ibula. Which of the following nerves is damaged? 
Common peroneal 
Sciatic 
Tibial  
Deep peroneal  
Superficial peroneal 
After injury to this nerve, which of the following muscles could be paralyzed? 
Extensor hallucis longus 
Gastrocnemius  
Popliteus  
Flexor digitorum longus 
Tibialis posterior 
If the lateral (fibular) collateral ligament is torn by this fracture, which of the following conditions 
may occur? 
Abnormal passive adduction of the extended leg 
Abnormal passive abduction of the extended leg 
Anterior displacement of the femur on thetibia 
Posterior displacement of the femur on thetibia 
Maximal flexion of the leg 
A patient presents with foot drop (inability to dorsiflex the foot) after a fracture of the fibular neck. 
Which nerve is MOST likely injured?{ 
=Common fibular (peroneal) nerve 
~Tibial nerve 
~Deep fibular (peroneal) nerve 
~Superficial fibular (peroneal) nerve 
~Sural nerve 
} 
A patient sustains a deep laceration to the posterior aspect of the leg. Which muscle group is MOST 
likely affected, leading to weakness in plantarflexion?{ 
=Calf muscles (gastrocnemius and soleus) 
~Anterior compartment muscles (tibialis anterior, etc.) 
~Lateral compartment muscles (fibularis longus and brevis) 
~Posterior compartment muscles (tibialis posterior, flexor digitorum longus, flexor hallucis longus) 
~Popliteus 
} 
A patient experiences numbness and tingling on the sole of the foot. Which nerve is MOST likely 
involved?{ 
=Tibial nerve 
~Common fibular (peroneal) nerve 
~Deep fibular (peroneal) nerve 
~Superficial fibular (peroneal) nerve 
~Sural nerve 
} 
A patient presents with pain and difficulty inverting the foot. Which muscle is MOST likely affected?{ 
=Tibialis posterior 
~Fibularis longus 
~Fibularis brevis 
~Extensor digitorum longus 
~Extensor hallucis longus 
} 
A patient suffers a severe ankle sprain, damaging the lateral ligaments. Which ligament is MOST 
commonly injured in this type of sprain?{ 
=Anterior talofibular ligament (ATFL) 
~Posterior talofibular ligament (PTFL) 
~Calcaneofibular ligament (CFL) 
~Deltoid ligament 
~Spring ligament 
} 
TOPIC 6 
t.v./Topic 6 
A high school basketball player experiences a sudden difficulty in breathing and is brought to an 
emergency department. When a low tracheotomy is performed below the isthmus of the thyroid, 
which of the following vessels may be encountered? 
Inferior thyroid vein 
Inferior thyroid artery  
Costocervical trunk  
Superior thyroid artery 
Right brachiocephalic vein 
A 59-year-old man complains of numbness in the anterior cervical triangle. Therefore, damage has 
occurred to which of the following nerves? 
Transverse cervical nerve 
Phrenic nerve  
Greater auricular nerve  
Supraclavicular nerve  
Lesser occipital nerve 
A 53-year-old man has difficulty with 
breathing through his nose. On examination, 
his physician finds that he has swelling of the 
mucous membranes of the superior nasal meatus. Which opening of the paranasal sinuses is 
most likely plugged? 
Posterior ethmoidal sinus 
Middle ethmoidal sinus  
Maxillary sinus  
Posterior ethmoidal sinus  
Anterior ethmoidal sinus  
Frontal sinus 
A 61-year-old woman is found to have ocular lymphoma invading her optic canal. Which of the 
following structures would most likely be damaged? 
Ophthalmic artery 
Ophthalmic vein  
Ophthalmic nerve  
Oculomotor nerve  
Trochlear nerve  
A 76-year-old man with swallowing difficulties undergoes imaging for a possible mass. The CT scan 
image at the level of the cricothyroid ligament in his neck should show which of the following 
structures? 
Inferior laryngeal nerves  
External carotid arteries  
Inferior thyroid veins  
Thyrocervical trunks 
Internal laryngeal nerves 
The muscles that are of branchiomeric origin are paralyzed in a 26-year-old patient. A lesion of 
which of the following nerves would cause muscle dysfunction? 
Trigeminal nerve 
Oculomotor nerve  
Trochlear nerve  
Abducens nerve  
Hypoglossal nerve 
During surgery for a malignant parotid tumor in a 69-year-old woman, the main trunk of the facial 
nerve is lacerated. Which of the following muscles is paralyzed? 
Buccinator muscle 
Masseter muscle  
Stylopharyngeus muscle  
Anterior belly of the digastric muscle   
Tensor tympani 
During a gang fight, a 17-year-old boy is punched, and his nasal septum is broken. Which of the 
following structures would be damaged? 
Vomer and perpendicular plate of ethmoid 
Septal cartilage and nasal bone  
Inferior concha and vomer 
Septal cartilage and middle concha  
Cribriform plate and frontal bone 
A 58-year-old woman comes to the hospital and complains of progressive loss of voice, numbness, 
loss of taste on the back part of her tongue, and difficulty in shrugging her shoulders. Her MRI scan 
reveals a dural meningioma that compresses the nerves leaving the skull. These nerves leave the 
skull through which of the following openings? 
Jugular foramen 
Foramen spinosum  
Foramen rotundum  
Internal auditory meatus  
Foramen lacerum 
A 21-year-old woman presents to her physician with a swelling on her neck. On examination, she is 
diagnosed with an infection within the carotid sheath. Which of the following structures would be 
damaged? 
Internal jugular vein and vagus nerve 
Vagus nerve and middle cervical ganglion 
Internal carotid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve 
Sympathetic trunk and common carotid artery 
External carotid artery and ansa cervicalis 
An angiogram of a 45-year-old man shows an occlusion of the costocervical trunk. This obstruction 
could produce a marked decrease in the blood flow in which of the following arteries? 
Deep cervical artery 
Superior thoracic artery  
Transverse cervical artery  
Ascending cervical artery  
Inferior thyroid artery 
A 45-year-old man comes to the local hospital with fever, headache, nausea, and vomiting. 
Laboratory tests reveal an infection, and radiologic examination localizes the infection to the 
cavernous sinus. Which of the following nerves would be unaffected by this condition? 
Mandibular nerves 
Oculomotor nerves 
Abducens nerves  
Trochlear nerves  
Ophthalmic nerves 
A 7-year-old girl has difficulty breathing through her nose and is brought to her pediatrician. On 
examination, she is  
diagnosed with adenoids. Which of the following tonsils is enlarged? 
Pharyngeal tonsil 
Palatine tonsil  
Tubal tonsil  
Lingual tonsil  
Eustachian tonsil 
A patient presents after a head injury with a brief loss of consciousness followed by a lucid interval, 
and then rapid deterioration. A CT scan reveals a lens-shaped hematoma that does not cross suture 
lines. This is MOST likely a/an:{ 
=Epidural hematoma 
~Subdural hematoma 
~Subarachnoid hemorrhage 
~Intracerebral hemorrhage 
~Contusion 
} 
A patient presents with headache, drowsiness, and confusion several weeks after a minor head 
injury. A CT scan shows a crescent-shaped hematoma that crosses suture lines. This is MOST likely 
a/an:{ 
=Subdural hematoma 
~Epidural hematoma 
~Subarachnoid hemorrhage 
~Intracerebral hemorrhage 
~Contusion 
} 
A surgeon is performing a trepanation (burr hole) procedure. The primary goal of this procedure is 
to:{ 
=Relieve intracranial pressure by evacuating a hematoma or abscess 
~Repair a skull fracture 
~Remove a brain tumor 
~Perform a biopsy of brain tissue 
~Insert an intracranial pressure monitor 
} 
During a trepanation procedure to evacuate an epidural hematoma, the surgeon must be careful to 
avoid injuring the:{ 
=Middle meningeal artery 
~Superior sagittal sinus 
~Inferior sagittal sinus 
~Transverse sinus 
~Cavernous sinus 
} 
A patient undergoes a craniotomy for evacuation of a subdural hematoma. Postoperatively, which of 
the following is a potential complication related to damage to bridging veins?{ 
=Recurrence of the hematoma 
~Infection 
~Seizures 
~Stroke 
~Cerebrospinal fluid leak 
} 
TOPIC 7 
t.v./ Topic 7 
A 19-year-old woman complains of numbness of the nasopharynx after surgical removal 
of the adenoid. A lesion of which of the following nerves would be expected? 
Glossopharyngeal nerve 
Maxillary nerve  
Superior cervical ganglion  
External laryngeal nerve  
Vagus nerve 
During surgery on a 56-year-old man for a squamous cell carcinoma of the neck, the surgeon notices 
profuse bleeding from the deep cervical artery. Which of the following arteries must be ligated 
immediately to stop bleeding?) Costocervical trunk 
Inferior thyroid artery 
Transverse cervical artery 
Thyrocervical trunk 
Ascending cervical artery 
A 17-year-old boy receives an injury to the phrenic nerve by a knife wound in the neck. The 
damaged nerve passes by which of the following structures in the neck? 
Superficial to the anterior scalene muscle 
Anterior to the subclavian vein 
Posterior to the subclavian artery  
Deep to the brachial plexus  
Medial to the common carotid artery  
A 45-year-old woman is suffering from numbness over the tip of her nose. Which of the following 
nerves is most likely to be damaged? 
Ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve 
Maxillary division of the trigeminal nerve 
Mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve 
Facial nerve 
Auriculotemporal nerve 
.A 26-year-old singer visits her physician—an ear, nose, and throat (ENT) surgeon—and complains of 
changes in her voice. A laryngoscopic examination demonstrates a lesion of the superior laryngeal 
nerve, causing weakness of which 
of the following muscles?  
Inferior pharyngeal constrictor  
Middle pharyngeal constrictor  
Superior pharyngeal constrictor  
Thyroarytenoid 
Thyrohyoid 
A 44-year-old man with “crocodile tears syndrome” has spontaneous lacrimation during eating 
because of misdirection of regenerating autonomic nerve fibers. Which of the following nerves has 
been injured? 
Facial nerve proximal to the geniculate ganglion 
Auriculotemporal nerve 
Chorda tympani in the infratemporal fossa 
Facial nerve at the stylomastoid foramen 
Lacrimal nerve 
A young girl complains of dryness of the 
nose and the palate. This would indicate a lesion of which of the following ganglia? 
Pterygopalatine ganglion 
Nodose ganglion  
Optic ganglion  
Submandibular ganglion  
Ciliary ganglion 
A 33-year-old woman develops Bell palsy. She must be cautious because this can result in corneal 
inflammation and subsequent ulceration. This symptom results from which of the following 
conditions? 
Absence of the corneal blink reflex 
Sensory loss of the cornea and conjunctiva 
Lack of secretion of the parotid gland 
Absence of sweating on the face 
Inability to constrict the pupil 
A 39-year-old woman presents to your clinic with complaints of headache and dizziness. She has an 
infection of a cranial dural sinus. The sinus that lies in the margin of the tentorium cerebelli and runs 
from the posterior end of the cavernous sinus to the transverse sinus is infected. Which of the 
following sinuses is affected by inflammation? 
Superior petrosal sinus 
Straight sinus 
Inferior sagittal sinus  
Sphenoparietal sinus  
Cavernous sinus 
A 24-year-old man falls from his motorcycle and lands in a creek. Death may result from bilateral 
severance of which of the following nerves? 
Vagus nerve 
Trigeminal nerve 
Facial nerve  
Spinal accessory nerve  
Hypoglossal nerve 
A young singer at the local music theater visits her physician and complains of vocal difficulties. On 
examination, she is unable to abduct the vocal cords during quiet breathing. Which of the following 
muscles is most likely paralyzed? 
Posterior cricoarytenoid muscle 
Vocalis muscle  
Cricothyroid muscle  
Oblique arytenoid muscle  
Thyroarytenoid muscle 
A 71-year-old woman often visits an emergency department with swallowing difficulties and 
subsequent choking while eating food. Which of the following pairs of muscles is most instrumental 
in preventing food from entering 
the larynx and trachea during swallowing? 
Oblique arytenoid and aryepiglottic Muscles 
Sternohyoid and sternothyroid muscles 
Inferior pharyngeal constrictor and thyrohyoid muscles 
Levator veli palatini and tensor veli palatini muscles 
Musculus uv 
A patient presents with a stab wound to the anterior triangle of the neck, resulting in significant 
bleeding. Which major vessel is MOST likely injured?{ 
=Carotid artery (common, internal, or external) 
~Subclavian artery 
~Jugular vein (internal or external) 
~Brachial artery 
~Vertebral artery 
} 
A patient undergoes a thyroidectomy (removal of the thyroid gland). Which nerve is at risk of injury 
during this procedure, potentially leading to hoarseness?{ 
=Recurrent laryngeal nerve 
~Vagus nerve 
~Phrenic nerve 
~Hypoglossal nerve 
~Cervical sympathetic trunk 
} 
A patient presents with a swelling in the posterior triangle of the neck. Which lymph nodes are 
commonly located in this region and might be involved in infection or malignancy?{ 
=Cervical lymph nodes (posterior) 
~Submandibular lymph nodes 
~Submental lymph nodes 
~Preauricular lymph nodes 
~Parotid lymph nodes 
} 
A patient has a deep infection in the neck that spreads along fascial planes. Which fascial layer is 
MOST likely to be involved in a deep neck infection that can spread to the mediastinum?{ 
=Pretracheal fascia 
~Prevertebral fascia 
~Investing layer of deep cervical fascia 
~Carotid sheath 
~Superficial cervical fascia 
} 
A surgeon is performing a neck dissection, a procedure to remove lymph nodes in the neck, often for 
cancer treatment. Which muscle is often used as a landmark during this procedure, dividing the 
anterior and posterior triangles of the neck?{ 
=Sternocleidomastoid muscle 
~Trapezius muscle 
~Platysma muscle 
~Omohyoid muscle 
~Digastric muscle 
} 
TOPIC 8 
t.v./Topic 8 
A 32-year-old patient who weighs 275 lb comes to the doctor’s office. On the surface of the chest, 
the physician is able to locate the apex of the heart: 
In the left fifth intercostal space 
At the level of the sternal angle  
In the left fourth intercostal space  
In the right fifth intercostal space 
At the level of the xiphoid process of the sternum 
A 43-year-old female patient has been lying down on the hospital bed for more than 4 months. Her 
normal, quiet expiration is achieved by contraction of which of the following structures? 
Elastic tissue in the lungs and thoracic wall  
Serratus posterior superior muscles  
Pectoralis minor muscles 
Serratus anterior muscles  
Diaphragm 
A 23-year-old man received a gunshot wound, and his greater splanchnic nerve was destroyed. 
Which of the following nerve fibers would be injured? 
GVA and preganglionic sympathetic fibers 
General somatic afferent (GSA) and preganglionic sympathetic fibers 
General visceral afferent (GVA) and postganglionic sympathetic fibers 
General somatic efferent (GSE) and postganglionic sympathetic fibers 
GVA and GSE fibers 
17-year-old boy was involved in a gang fight, and a stab wound severed the white rami 
communicantes at the level of his sixth thoracic vertebra. This injury would result in degeneration of 
nerve cell bodies in which of the following structures? 
Dorsal root ganglion and lateral horn of the spinal cord 
Dorsal root ganglion and anterior horn of the spinal cord 
Sympathetic chain ganglion and dorsal root ganglion 
Sympathetic chain ganglion and posterior horn of the spinal cord 
Anterior and lateral horns of the spinal cord 
A 27-year-old cardiac patient with an irregular heartbeat visits her doctor’s office for examination. 
Where should the physician place the stethoscope to listen to the sound of the mitral valve? 
In the left fifth intercostal space at the midclavicular line 
Over the medial end of the second left intercostal space 
Over the medial end of the second right intercostal space 
In the left fourth intercostal space at the midclavicular line 
Over the right half of the lower end of the body of the sternum 
A 19-year-old man came to the emergency department, and his angiogram exhibited that he was 
bleeding from the vein that is accompanied by the posterior interventricular artery. Which of the 
following veins is most likely to be ruptured? 
Middle cardiac vein 
Great cardiac vein  
Anterior cardiac vein  
Small cardiac vein  
Oblique veins of the left atrium 
A 37-year-old patient with palpitation was examined by her physician, and one of the diagnostic 
records included a posterior–anterior chest radiograph. Which of the following comprises the largest 
portion of the sternocostal surface of the heart seen on the radiograph? 
Right ventricle 
Left atrium 
Right atrium  
Left ventricle  
Base of the heart 
A 5-year-old girl is brought to the emergency department because of difficulty breathing (dyspnea), 
palpitations, and shortness of breath. Doppler study of the heart reveals an atrial septal defect (ASD). 
This malformation usually results from incomplete closure of which of the following embryonic 
structures? 
Foramen ovale 
Ductus arteriosus 
Ductus venosus  
Sinus venarum  
Truncus arteriosus 
A 54-year-old patient is implanted with an artificial cardiac pacemaker. Which of 
the following conductive tissues of the heart had a defective function that required the 
pacemaker? 
Sinoatrial 
Atrioventricular (AV) bundle  
AV node 
(SA) node  
Purkinje fiber  
Moderator band 
A thoracic surgeon removed the right middle lobar (secondary) bronchus along with lung tissue from 
a 57-year-old heavy smoker with lung cancer. Which of the following bronchopulmonary segments 
must contain cancerous tissues? 
Medial and lateral 
Anterior and posterior 
Anterior basal and medial basal  
Anterior basal and posterior basal  
Lateral basal and posterior basal 
Coronary angiographs of a 44-year-old male patient reveal an occlusion of the circumflex branch of 
the left coronary artery. This patient has been suffering from myocardial infarction in which of the 
following areas? 
Left atrium and ventricle 
Right and left ventricles  
Right and left atria  
Interventricular septum  
Apex of the heart  
A patient has a small but solid tumor in the mediastinum, which is confined at the level of the 
sternal angle. Which of the following structures would most likely be found at this level? 
Bifurcation of the trachea 
Beginning of the ascending aorta 
Middle of the aortic arch 
Articulation of the third rib with the sternum 
Superior border of the superior mediastinum 
A woman notices a new lump in her breast during a self-exam. The most common location for breast 
masses, including cancerous ones, is the:{ 
=Upper outer quadrant 
~Upper inner quadrant 
~Lower outer quadrant 
~Lower inner quadrant 
~Central (subareolar) region 
} 
A medical student is palpating the breast of a patient. The axillary tail of Spence, which is an 
extension of breast tissue, extends towards the:{ 
=Axilla (armpit) 
~Clavicle 
~Sternum 
~Abdomen 
~Back 
} 
During a physical exam, the physician notes prominent skin dimpling over the breast. This finding is 
MOST suggestive of involvement of:{ 
=Cooper's ligaments (suspensory ligaments) 
~Lactiferous ducts 
~Montgomery glands 
~Rib cage 
~Pectoralis major muscle 
} 
A breastfeeding mother experiences redness, warmth, and tenderness in a localized area of her 
breast. This is MOST likely due to:{ 
=Mastitis (inflammation of the breast tissue) 
~Fibroadenoma (benign tumor) 
~Breast cancer 
~A simple cyst 
~Fat necrosis 
} 
A physician is explaining the lymphatic drainage of the breast to a patient. They emphasize the 
importance of the axillary lymph nodes because they:{ 
=Are the primary site of lymphatic drainage from the breast 
~Drain directly into the bloodstream 
~Are easily accessible for biopsy 
~Are located within the breast tissue itself 
~Drain only the medial aspect of the breast 
} 
TOPIC 9 
The bronchogram of a 45-year-old female smoker shows the presence of a tumor in the eparterial 
bronchus. Which airway is most likely blocked? 
Right superior bronchus 
Left superior bronchus 
Left inferior bronchus  
Right middle bronchus  
Right inferior bronchus 
An 83-year-old man with a typical coronary circulation has been suffering from an embolism of the 
circumflex branch of the left coronary artery. This condition would result in ischemia of which of the 
following areas of the heart? 
Posterior part of the left ventricle 
Anterior part of the left ventricle 
Anterior interventricular region  
Posterior interventricular region  
Anterior part of the right ventricle 
A 44-year-old man with a stab wound was brought to the emergency department, and a physician 
found that the patient was suffering from a laceration of his right phrenic nerve. Which of the 
following conditions has likely occurred? 
Loss of sensation in the fibrous pericardium and mediastinal pleura 
Injury to only GSE fiber 
Difficulty in expiration 
Normal function of the diaphragm 
Loss of sensation in the costal part of the diaphragm 
An 8-year-old boy with ASD presents to a pediatrician. This congenital heart defect shunts blood 
from the left atrium to the right atrium and causes hypertrophy of the right atrium, right ventricle, 
and pulmonary trunk. Which of the following veins opens into the hypertrophied atrium? 
Anterior cardiac vein 
Middle cardiac vein  
Small cardiac vein  
Oblique cardiac vein  
Right pulmonary vein 
A 37-year-old patient with severe chest pain, shortness of breath, and congestive heart failure was 
admitted to a local hospital. His coronary angiograms reveal a thrombosis in the circumflex branch of 
the left coronary artery. Which of the following conditions could result from the blockage of blood 
f
low in the circumflex branch? 
Mitral valve insufficiency 
Tricuspid valve insufficiency 
Ischemia of AV node  
Paralysis of pectinate muscle  
Necrosis of septomarginal trabecula 
A 75-year-old patient has been suffering from lung cancer located near the cardiac 
notch, a deep indentation on the lung. Which of the following lobes is most likely to be excised? 
Superior lobe of the left lung 
Superior lobe of the right lung  
Middle lobe of the right lung  
Inferior lobe of the right lung  
Inferior lobe of the left lung 
A thoracentesis is performed to aspirate an abnormal accumulation of fluid in a 37-yearold patient 
with pleural effusion. A needle should be inserted at the midaxillary line between which of the 
following two ribs so as to avoid puncturing the lung? 
Ribs 7 and 9 
Ribs 1 and 3 
Ribs 3 and 5 
Ribs 5 and 7 
Ribs 9 and 11 
A newborn baby is readmitted to the hospital with hypoxia and upon testing is found to 
have pulmonary stenosis, dextraposition of the aorta, interventricular septal defect, and hypertrophy 
of the right ventricle. Which of the following is best described by these symptoms? 
Tetralogy of Fallot 
ASD 
Patent ductus arteriosus 
Aortic stenosis  
Coarctation of the aorta 
A 33-year-old patient is suffering from a sudden occlusion at the origin of the descending (thoracic) 
aorta. This condition would most likely decrease blood flow in which of the following intercostal 
arteries? 
Lower six posterior 
Upper six anterior  
All of the posterior  
Upper two posterior  
Lower anterior  
A 56-year-old patient recently suffered a myocardial infarction in the area of the apex of the heart. 
The occlusion by atherosclerosis is in which of the following arteries? 
Anterior interventricular artery 
Marginal artery 
Right coronary artery at its origin  
Posterior interventricular artery 
Circumflex branch of the left coronary artery 
A 45-year-old woman presents with a tumor 
confined to the posterior mediastinum. This 
could result in compression of which of the following structures?  
Descending aorta 
Trachea  
Arch of the aorta  
Arch of the azygos vein  
Phrenic nerve 
A 62-year-old patient with pericardial effusion comes to a local hospital for aspiration 
of pericardial fluid by pericardiocentesis. The 
needle is inserted into the pericardial cavity through which of the following intercostal 
spaces adjacent to the sternum? 
Left fifth intercostal space 
Right fourth intercostal space  
Left fourth intercostal space  
Right fifth intercostal space  
Right sixth intercostal space 
A patient is involved in a motor vehicle accident and sustains a penetrating injury to the anterior 
chest wall near the sternal angle (angle of Louis). Which structure is MOST likely to be directly 
posterior to this landmark?{ 
=The aortic arch 
~The superior vena cava 
~The trachea 
~The esophagus 
~The pulmonary trunk 
} 
A surgeon is performing a median sternotomy (splitting the sternum) to access the heart. Which 
structure is immediately posterior to the sternum and must be carefully avoided?{ 
=The thymus (or remnants of it) 
~The trachea 
~The esophagus 
~The aortic arch 
~The superior vena cava 
} 
A patient presents with a goiter (enlargement of the thyroid gland). Which anatomical structure is at 
risk of compression due to this enlargement, potentially causing difficulty breathing?{ 
=The trachea 
~The esophagus 
~The vagus nerve 
~The phrenic nerve 
~The internal jugular vein 
} 
A patient undergoes a thyroidectomy (removal of the thyroid gland). Postoperatively, they develop 
hoarseness. Which nerve is MOST likely injured during the procedure?{ 
=Recurrent laryngeal nerve 
~Vagus nerve 
~Phrenic nerve 
~Hypoglossal nerve 
~Cervical sympathetic trunk 
} 
A central venous catheter is being inserted into the subclavian vein. Which other large vessel is in 
close proximity and could be inadvertently punctured if the procedure is not performed carefully?{ 
=Subclavian artery 
~Internal jugular vein 
~External jugular vein 
~Brachiocephalic vein 
~Axillary vein 
} 
TOPIC 10 
A 75-year-old woman was admitted to a local hospital, and bronchograms and radiographs revealed 
a lung carcinoma in her left lung. Which of the following structures or characteristics does the 
cancerous lung contain? 
Lingula 
Horizontal fissure 
Groove for superior vena cava (SVC) 
Middle lobe 
Larger capacity than the right 
An 18-year-old girl is thrust into the steering wheel while driving and experiences difficulty in 
expiration. Which of the following muscles is most likely damaged? 
Muscles of the abdominal wall 
Levator costarum  
Innermost intercostal muscle  
External intercostal muscle  
Diaphragm 
A 78-year-old patient presents with an advanced cancer in the posterior mediastinum. The surgeons 
are in a dilemma as to how to manage the condition. Which of the following structures is most likely 
damaged? 
Hemiazygos vein 
Brachiocephalic veins  
Trachea 
Arch of the azygos vein  
Arch of the aorta  
A 46-year-old patient comes to his doctor’s office and complains of chest pain and headache. His 
computed tomography (CT) scan reveals a tumor located just superior to the root of the right lung. 
Blood flow in which of the following veins is most likely blocked by this tumor? 
Arch of the azygos vein 
Hemiazygos vein  
Right subclavian vein  
Right brachiocephalic vein  
Accessory hemiazygos vein 
A 21-year-old patient with a stab wound reveals a laceration of the right vagus nerve proximal to the 
origin of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Which of the following conditions would most likely result 
from this lesion? 
Dilation of the bronchial lumen 
Contraction of bronchial muscle  
Stimulation of bronchial gland secretion  
Decrease in cardiac rate  
Constriction of coronary artery 
A neonate appears severely cyanotic and breathing rapidly. Cardiac echocardiogram reveals that the 
aorta lies to the right of the pulmonary trunk. Which of the following is most likely occurred during 
development? 
AP septum failed to develop in a spiral fashion 
Excessive resorption of septum primum  
Pulmonary valve atresia  
Persistent truncus arteriosus  
Coarctation of the aorta 
A 12-year-old boy was admitted to a local hospital with a known history of heart problems. His left 
ventricular hypertrophy could result from which of the following conditions? 
Stenosis of the aorta 
A constricted pulmonary trunk 
An abnormally small left AV opening  
Improper closing of the pulmonary valves  
An abnormally large right AV opening  
A 31-year-old man was involved in a severe automobile accident and suffered laceration of the left 
primary bronchus. The damaged primary bronchus: 
Is longer than the right primary bronchus 
Has a larger diameter than the right primary bronchus 
Often receives more foreign bodies than 
the right primary bronchus 
Gives rise to the eparterial bronchus  
Runs under the arch of the azygos vein 
A 62-year-old woman who is a heavy smoker has an advanced lung cancer that spread into her right 
third posterior intercostal space posterior to the midaxillary line. If cancer cells are carried in the 
venous drainage, they would 
travel first to which of the following veins? 
Right superior intercostal vein 
SVC 
Right brachiocephalic vein  
Azygos vein  
Hemiazygos vein 
A radiologist examines posterior–anterior chest radiographs of a 27-year-old victim of a car accident. 
Which of the following structures forms the right border of the cardiovascular silhouette? 
SVC 
Arch of the aorta  
Pulmonary trunk 
Ascending aorta  
Left ventricle 
A 37-year-old man is brought to the emergency department complaining of severe chest pain. His 
angiogram reveals thromboses of both brachiocephalic veins just before entering the superior vena 
cava. This condition would most likely cause a dilation of which of the following veins? 
Left superior intercostal 
Azygos 
Hemiazygos 
Right superior intercostal  
Internal thoracic 
A cardiologist is on clinical rounds with her medical students. She asks them, “During the cardiac 
cycle, which of the following events occurs?” 
Blood flow in coronary arteries is maximal during diastole 
AV valves close during diastole  
Aortic valve closes during systole  
Pulmonary valve opens during diastole 
Aortic valve closes at the same time as AVvalve 
A patient presents with dysphagia (difficulty swallowing) and recurrent aspiration pneumonia. A CT 
scan reveals a mass in the posterior mediastinum compressing the esophagus. Which structure is 
MOST likely involved?{ 
=Esophagus 
~Trachea 
~Descending thoracic aorta 
~Superior vena cava 
~Azygos vein 
} 
A patient undergoes a thoracic surgery and experiences postoperative hoarseness. Which nerve is 
MOST likely injured during the procedure, given its close relationship to the esophagus in the 
posterior mediastinum?{ 
=Recurrent laryngeal nerve 
~Phrenic nerve 
~Vagus nerve 
~Intercostal nerves 
~Thoracic sympathetic trunk 
} 
A thoracic aortic aneurysm is discovered on a chest X-ray. This aneurysm involves which vessel 
located in the posterior mediastinum?{ 
=Descending thoracic aorta 
~Ascending aorta 
~Aortic arch 
~Pulmonary trunk 
~Superior vena cava 
} 
A patient undergoes a procedure involving the esophagus in the posterior mediastinum. Which nerve 
plexus, formed by branches of the vagus nerves, is closely associated with the esophageal wall and 
could be affected?{ 
=Esophageal plexus 
~Cardiac plexus 
~Pulmonary plexus 
~Celiac plexus 
~Superior mesenteric plexus 
} 
A patient has a condition affecting venous drainage from the posterior thoracic and abdominal walls. 
Which venous system, located in the posterior mediastinum, is MOST likely involved?{ 
=Azygos venous system (azygos, hemiazygos, and accessory hemiazygos veins) 
~Superior vena cava 
~Inferior vena cava 
~Pulmonary veins 
~Portal venous system 
} 
TOPIC 11 
A 63-year-old man comes to the emergency department with back pain, weakness, and shortness of 
breath. On examination, he has an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta at the aortic hiatus of the 
diaphragm. Which of the following pairs of structures would most likely be compressed? 
Azygos vein and thoracic duct 
Vagus nerve and azygos vein 
Esophagus and vagus nerve 
Thoracic duct and vagus nerve 
Inferior vena cava (IVC) and phrenic nerve 
A 36-year-old woman with yellow pigmentation of the skin and sclerae presents at the outpatient 
clinic. Which of the following conditions most likely is the cause of her obstructive jaundice? 
Cancer in the head of the pancreas 
Aneurysm of the splenic artery  
Perforated ulcer of the stomach  
Obstruction of the main pancreatic duct  
Cancer in the body of the pancreas 
A 2-year-old boy presents with pain in his groin that has been increasing in nature over the past few 
weeks. He is found to have a degenerative malformation of the transversalis fascia during 
development. Which of the following structures on the anterior abdominal wall is likely defective? 
Deep inguinal ring 
Superficial inguinal ring   
Inguinal ligament 
Sac of a direct inguinal hernia  
Anterior wall of the inguinal canal 
A 29-year-old man comes to a local hospital with duodenal peptic ulcer and complains of cramping 
epigastric pain. Which of the following structures harbors the cell bodies of abdominal pain fibers? 
Dorsal root ganglion 
Lateral horn of the spinal cord  
Anterior horn of the spinal cord 
Sympathetic chain ganglion  
Celiac ganglion 
A 42-year-old obese woman with seven children is brought to a local hospital by her daughter. 
Physical examination and her radiograph reveal that large gallstones have ulcerated through the 
posterior wall of the fundus of the gallbladder into the intestine. Which of the following parts of the 
intestine is most likely to initially contain gallstones? 
Transverse colon 
Cecum  
Ascending colon  
Descending colon  
Sigmoid colon 
A 35-year-old woman comes to a local hospital with abdominal tenderness and acute pain. 
On examination, her physician observes that an abdominal infection has spread retroperitoneally. 
Which of the following structures is most likely affected?  
Descending colon 
Stomach  
Transverse colon  
Jejunum  
Spleen 
During an annual health examination of a 46-year-old woman, a physician finds hypersecretion of 
norepinephrine from her suprarenal medulla. Which of the following types of nerve fibers are most 
likely overstimulated? 
Preganglionic sympathetic fibers 
Postganglionic sympathetic fibers  
Somatic motor fibers  
Postganglionic parasympathetic fibers  
Preganglionic parasympathetic fibers 
A 6-year-old girl comes to her pediatrician with constipation, abdominal distention, and vomiting. 
After thorough examination, she is diagnosed as having Hirschsprung disease (aganglionic 
megacolon), which is a congenital disease and leads to dilation of the colon. This condition is caused 
by an absence of which of the following kinds of neural cell bodies? 
Parasympathetic postganglionic neuron cell bodies 
Sympathetic preganglionic neuron cell bodies 
Sympathetic postganglionic neuron cell bodies 
Parasympathetic preganglionic neuron cell bodies 
Sensory neuron cell bodies 
A pediatric surgeon is resecting a possible malignant mass from the liver of a neonate with cerebral 
palsy. The surgeon divides the round ligament of the liver during surgery. A fibrous remnant of which 
of the following fetal vessels 
is severed?  
Left umbilical vein 
Ductus venosus  
Ductus arteriosus  
Right umbilical vein  
Umbilical artery 
A 27-year-old woman has suffered a gunshot wound to her midabdomen. After examining the 
patient’s angiogram, a trauma surgeon locates the source of bleeding from pairs of veins that 
typically terminate in the same vein. Which of the following veins are damaged? 
Left and right hepatic veins 
Left and right ovarian veins 
Left and right gastroepiploic veins  
Left and right colic veins  
Left and right suprarenal veins  
A 6-year-old boy comes to his pediatrician with a lump in the groin near the thigh and pain in the 
groin. On examination, the physician makes a diagnosis of a direct inguinal hernia because the 
herniated tissue: 
Develops after birth 
Enters the deep inguinal ring 
Lies lateral to the inferior epigastric artery  
Is covered by spermatic fasciae  
Descends into the scrotum  
A 21-year-old man developed a hernia after lifting heavy boxes while moving into his new house. 
During the repair of his resulting hernia, the urologist recalls that the genitofemoral nerve: 
Passes through the deep inguinal ring 
Runs in front of the quadratus lumborum  
Is a branch of the femoral nerve  
Supplies the testis 
Gives rise to an anterior scrotal branch 
A patient presents with a bulge in the groin area that appears when they cough or strain. The bulge is 
located medial to the inferior epigastric vessels. This is MOST likely a/an:{ 
=Direct inguinal hernia 
~Indirect inguinal hernia 
~Femoral hernia 
~Umbilical hernia 
~Epigastric hernia 
} 
A patient develops a bulge in the groin area after heavy lifting. The bulge is located lateral to the 
inferior epigastric vessels. This is MOST likely a/an:{ 
=Indirect inguinal hernia 
~Direct inguinal hernia 
~Femoral hernia 
~Umbilical hernia 
~Epigastric hernia 
} 
A female patient presents with a bulge in the upper thigh, just below the inguinal ligament. This type 
of hernia is MOST likely a/an:{ 
=Femoral hernia 
~Inguinal hernia (direct or indirect) 
~Umbilical hernia 
~Epigastric hernia 
~Spigelian hernia 
} 
A patient has undergone abdominal surgery and develops a hernia at the site of the incision. This is 
known as a/an:{ 
=Incisional hernia 
~Umbilical hernia 
~Epigastric hernia 
~Spigelian hernia 
~Hiatal hernia 
} 
During an inguinal hernia repair, the surgeon identifies the conjoint tendon. This structure is formed 
by the aponeuroses of which two muscles?{ 
=Internal oblique and transversus abdominis 
~External oblique and internal oblique 
~Transversus abdominis and rectus abdominis 
~External oblique and transversalis fascia 
~Internal oblique and transversalis fascia 
} 
TOPIC 12 
A physical fitness trainer for a young Hollywood movie star explains the reasons for 100 stomach 
crunches a day. The young star, a medical student before ‘hitting it big,’ reaffirms to his trainer that 
the lateral margin of the rectus abdominis, the muscle responsible for a washboard stomach, defines 
which of the following structures? 
Linea semilunaris 
Linea alba  
Linea circularis  
Transversalis fascia  
Falx inguinalis 
During surgical treatment of portal hypertension in a 59-year-old man with liver cirrhosis, a surgeon 
inadvertently lacerates the dilated paraumbilical veins. The veins must be repaired to allow collateral 
f
low. Which of the following ligaments is most likely severed? 
Ligamentum teres hepatis 
Lienorenal ligament 
Lienogastric ligament  
Gastrophrenic ligament 
Ligamentum venosum 
A 43-year-old woman is admitted to the hospital because of deep abdominal pain in her epigastric 
region. On examination, it is observed that a retroperitoneal infection erodes an artery that runs 
along the superior border of the pancreas. Which of the following arteries is likely injured? 
Splenic artery 
Right gastric artery  
Left gastroepiploic artery  
Gastroduodenal artery  
Dorsal pancreatic artery 
A 19-year-old young woman with a long history of irritable bowel syndrome presents for the 
possibility of surgical resection of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract where the vagal parasympathetic 
innervation terminates. Which of the following sites is most appropriate for surgical resection? 
Left colic flexure 
Duodenojejunal junction  
Ileocecal junction  
Right colic flexure  
Anorectal junction 
A 58-year-old man is admitted to the hospital with severe abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting 
resulting in dehydration. 
Emergency CT scan reveals a tumor located between the celiac trunk and the superior 
mesenteric artery. Which of the following structures is likely compressed by this tumor? 
Neck of the pancreas 
Fundus of the stomach  
Transverse colon  
Hepatopancreatic ampulla  
Duodenojejunal junction 
An emergent hernia repair is scheduled. Asthe attending physician is driving to the hospital, the 
medical student assisting on the case quickly reviews his anatomy atlas and is trying 
to commit to memory that the internal oblique abdominis muscle contributes to the formation of 
which of the following structures? 
Falx inguinalis (conjoint tendon 
Inguinal ligament 
Deep inguinal ring 
Internal spermatic fascia  
Reflected inguinal ligament 
49. A 9-year-old girl has crashed into her neighbor’s brick fence while riding her bike and is brought 
to the emergency department with a great deal of abdominal pain. Her radiogram and angiogram 
show laceration of the superior mesenteric artery immediately distal to the origin of the middle colic 
artery. If collateral circulation is discounted, which of the following organs may become ischemic? 
Ascending colon 
Descending colon  
Duodenum  
Pancreas  
Transverse colon 
A 53-year-old woman with known kidney disease presents to a hospital because her pain has 
become increasingly more severe. A physician performing kidney surgery must remember that: 
The left renal vein runs anterior to both the aorta and the left renal artery 
The left kidney lies a bit lower than the right one 
The perirenal fat lies external to the renal fascia 
The renal fascia does not surround the suprarenal gland 
The right renal artery is shorter than the left renal artery 
51. A neonatal baby was born with diabetes mellitus due to an inadequate production of insulin. 
Cells in the endocrine portion of the pancreas that secrete insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin are 
derived from which of the following? 
Endoderm 
Ectoderm  
Mesoderm  
Proctodeum 
Neural crest cells 
52. During development, the midgut arteryappears to be markedly narrowed at its origin. Which of 
the following structures is derivedfrom the midgut and may receive inadequate blood supply? 
Ascending colon 
Gallbladder  
Stomach 
Descending colon  
Rectum 
A 3-year-old boy is admitted to the children’s hospital with complaints of restlessness, abdominal 
pain, and fever. An MRI examination reveals that he has a double ureter. Which of the following 
embryonic structures is most likely failed to develop normally? 
Ureteric bud 
Mesonephric (Wolffian) duct 
Paramesonephric (Müllerian) duct 
Metanephros  
Pronephros 
A neonate has a small reducible protrusion through a defined ring at the umbilicus. His pediatrician 
indicates to the parents that this will likely close spontaneously. Which of the following congenital 
malformations is present? 
Umbilical hernia 
Symptomatic patent urachus 
Patent omphalomesenteric duct  
Omphalocele  
Gastroschisi 
A patient with severe esophageal stricture is unable to eat orally. A surgical procedure is performed 
to create an opening into the stomach for feeding. This procedure is called a:{ 
=Gastrostomy 
~Cholecystostomy 
~Jejunostomy 
~Ileostomy 
~Esophagectomy 
} 
A patient undergoes a partial gastrectomy for gastric cancer. A Billroth I procedure is performed, 
which involves:{ 
=Anastomosis of the remaining stomach to the duodenum 
~Anastomosis of the remaining stomach to the jejunum 
~Removal of the entire stomach 
~Removal of the duodenum 
~Creation of a new esophagus 
} 
A patient develops severe postprandial dumping syndrome after a gastrectomy. This syndrome is 
characterized by:{ 
=Rapid emptying of gastric contents into the small intestine 
~Delayed gastric emptying 
~Obstruction of the pylorus 
~Inflammation of the gastric mucosa 
~Perforation of the stomach 
} 
A surgeon is performing a laparoscopic gastrostomy. The endoscope is inserted through the 
abdominal wall to visualize the stomach and guide the placement of the feeding tube. The initial 
puncture site is typically in the:{ 
=Left upper quadrant 
~Right upper quadrant 
~Left lower quadrant 
~Right lower quadrant 
~Epigastric region 
} 
A patient presents with a perforated gastric ulcer in the anterior wall of the stomach. Which 
anatomical structure is MOST likely to be involved in the resulting peritonitis?{ 
=Greater omentum 
~Lesser omentum 
~Transverse colon 
~Root of the mesentery 
~Retroperitoneal space 
} 
TOPIC 13 
t.v./13 
A 35-year-old woman with a history of cholecystectomy arrives in the emergency department with 
intractable hiccups most likely caused by an abdominal abscess secondary to surgical infection. 
Which of the following nerves carries pain sensation caused by irritation of the peritoneum on the 
central portion of the inferior surface of the diaphragm? 
Phrenic nerve 
Vagus nerve 
Lower intercostal nerve  
Greater splanchnic nerve  
Subcostal nerve 
A 16-year-old boy with a ruptured spleen comes to the emergency department for splenectomy. 
Soon after ligation of the splenic artery just distal to its origin, a surgical resident observes that the 
patient is healing normally. Normal blood flow would occur in which of the following arteries? 
Inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery 
Short gastric arteries 
Dorsal pancreatic artery 
Left gastroepiploic artery  
Artery in the lienorenal ligament 
A 9-year-old boy was admitted to the emergency department complaining of nausea, vomiting, 
fever, and loss of appetite. On examination, he was found to have tenderness and pain on the right 
lower quadrant. Based on signs 
and symptoms, the diagnosis of acute appendicitis was made. During an appendectomy performed 
at McBurney point, which of the following structures is most likely to be injured? 
Iliohypogastric nerve 
Deep circumflex femoral artery 
Inferior epigastric artery  
Genitofemoral nerve 
Spermatic cord 
A 54-year-old man with a long history of alcohol abuse presents to the emergency department with 
rapidly increasing abdominal distention most likely resulting from an alteration in portal systemic 
blood flow. Which of the 
following characteristics is associated with the portal vein or the portal venous system? 
Caput medusae and hemorrhoids caused 
by portal hypertension 
Lower blood pressure than in the IVC 
Least risk of venous varices because of portal hypertension 
Distention of the portal vein resulting from 
its numerous valves 
Less blood flow than in the hepatic artery 
While examining radiographs and angiograms of a 52-year-old patient, a physician 
is trying to distinguish the jejunum from the 
ileum. He has observed that the jejunum has: 
Fewer mesenteric arterial arcades 
Fewer plicae circulares 
Less digestion and absorption of nutrients 
Shorter vasa recta 
More fat in its mesentery 
A 67-year-old woman with a long history of liver cirrhosis was seen in the emergency department. In 
this patient with portal hypertension, which of the following veins is most likely to be dilated?  
Right colic vein 
Inferior epigastric vein 
Inferior phrenic vein  
Suprarenal vein  
Ovarian vein 
A 26-year-old patient is admitted to a local hospital with a retroperitoneal infection. Which of the 
following arteries is most likely to be infected? 
Dorsal pancreatic artery 
Left gastric artery  
Proper hepatic artery  
Middle colic artery  
Sigmoid arteries  
A pediatric surgeon has resected a structure that is a fibrous remnant of an embryonic or fetal artery 
in a 5-year-old child. Which of the following structures is most likely to be divided? 
Medial umbilical fold 
Lateral umbilical fold  
Median umbilical fold  
Ligamentum teres hepatis  
Ligamentum venosum 
A 57-year-old patient has a tumor in the body of the pancreas that obstructs the inferior mesenteric 
vein just before joining the splenic vein. Which of the following veins is most likely to be enlarged? 
Left colic vein 
Middle colic vein 
Left gastroepiploic vein 
Inferior pancreaticoduodenal vein 
Ileocolic vein 
An elderly man with prostatic hypertrophy returns to his urologist with another case of epididymitis. 
An acute infection involving the dartos muscle layer of the scrotum most likely leads to an 
enlargement of which of the following lymph nodes?  
Superficial inguinal nodes 
Preaortic nodes  
Lumbar nodes   
External iliac nodes  
Common iliac nodes 
A 3-year-old boy is diagnosed as having a persistent processus vaginalis in its middle portion. Which 
of the following conditions is most likely to be associated with this developmental anomaly? 
Hydrocele 
Direct inguinal hernia  
Gubernaculum testis  
Hematocele  
Cryptorchidism 
Examination of a 54-year-old man reveals an isolated tumor located at the porta hepatis. This tumor 
most likely compresses which of the following structures? 
Branches of the portal vein 
Cystic duct 
Hepatic veins  
Common hepatic artery  
Left gastric artery  
A patient presents with right upper quadrant pain that radiates to the right shoulder. This pain is 
MOST likely due to pathology of the:{ 
=Gallbladder 
~Spleen 
~Liver 
~Stomach 
~Pancreas 
} 
A patient is diagnosed with cirrhosis of the liver. This condition primarily affects the:{ 
=Hepatocytes (liver cells) 
~Gallbladder 
~Spleen 
~Pancreas 
~Bile ducts 
} 
A patient has a history of portal hypertension. Which organ is directly involved in this condition due 
to its role in receiving blood from the gastrointestinal tract?{ 
=Liver 
~Gallbladder 
~Spleen 
~Pancreas 
~Kidneys 
} 
A patient presents with left upper quadrant pain and tenderness after a blunt abdominal trauma. 
Which organ is MOST likely injured?{ 
=Spleen 
~Liver 
~Gallbladder 
~Stomach 
~Pancreas 
} 
A physician is palpating the abdomen. Under normal circumstances, the spleen is:{ 
=Not palpable 
~Easily palpable in the right upper quadrant 
~Palpable in the left lower quadrant 
~Palpable below the xiphoid process 
~Palpable in the midline of the abdomen 
} 
TOPIC 14 
t.v,/Topic 14 
During an outbreak of meningitis at a local college, a 20-year-old student presents to a hospital 
emergency department complaining of headache, fever, chills, and stiff neck. On examination, it 
appears that he may have meningitis and needs a lumbar puncture or a spinal tap. Cerebrospinal 
f
luid (CSF) is normally withdrawn from which of the following spaces? 
Subarachnoid space 
Epidural space 
Subdural space 
Space between the spinal cord and the piamater  
Space between the arachnoid and dura maters 
A 23-year-old jockey falls from her horse and complains of headache, backache, and weakness. 
Radiologic examination would reveal blood in which of the following spaces if the internal vertebral 
venous plexus was ruptured? 
Epidural space 
Space deep to the pia mater 
Space between the arachnoid and duramaters  
Subdural space  
Subarachnoid space 
A 42-year-old woman with metastatic breast cancer is known to have tumors in the intervertebral 
foramina between the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae and between the fourth and fifth thoracic 
vertebrae. Which of the following spinal nerves may be damaged? 
Fifth cervical and fourth thoracic nerves 
Fourth cervical and fourth thoracic nerves 
Fifth cervical and fifth thoracic nerves  
Fourth cervical and fifth thoracic nerves  
Third cervical and fourth thoracic nerves 
A 39-year-old woman with headaches presents to her primary care physician with a possible 
herniated disk. Her magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan reveals that the posterolateral protrusion 
of the intervertebral disk between L4 and L5 vertebrae would most likely affect nerve roots of which 
of the following spinal nerves? 
Fifth lumbar nerve 
Third lumbar nerve  
Fourth lumbar nerve  
First sacral nerve  
Second sacral nerve 
A 57-year-old woman comes into her physician’s office complaining of fever, nausea, vomiting, and 
the worst headache of her life. Tests and physical examination suggest hydrocephalus (widening 
ventricles) resulting from a decrease in the absorption of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). A decrease of 
f
low in the CSF through which of the following structures would be responsible for these findings? 
Arachnoid villi 
Choroid plexus  
Vertebral venous plexus  
Internal jugular vein 
Subarachnoid trabeculae 
After a 26-year-old man’s car was broadsided by a large truck, he is brought to the emergency 
department with multiple fractures of the transverse processes of the cervical and upper thoracic 
vertebrae. Which of the following 
muscles might be affected?  
Levator scapulae 
Trapezius 
Rhomboid major  
Serratus posterior superior  
Rectus capitis posterior major 
A 27-year-old mountain climber falls from a steep rock wall and is brought to the emergency 
department. His physical examination and computed tomography (CT) scan reveal dislocation 
fracture of the upper thoracic vertebrae. The fractured body of the T4 vertebra articulates with 
which of the following parts of the ribs? 
Head of the fifth rib 
Head of the third rib 
Neck of the fourth rib  
Tubercle of the fourth rib  
Tubercle of the fifth rib 
A young toddler presents to her pediatrician with rather new onset of bowel and bladder 
dysfunction and loss of the lower limb function. Her mother had not taken enough folic acid (to the 
point of a deficiency) during her pregnancy. On examination, the child has protrusion of the spinal 
cord and meninges and is diagnosed with which of the following conditions? 
Meningomyelocele 
Spina bifida occulta 
Meningocele  
Myeloschisis   
Syringomyelocele 
A 34-year-old woman crashes into a tree during a skiing lesson and is brought to a hospital with 
multiple injuries that impinge the dorsal primary rami of several spinal nerves. Such lesions could 
affect which of the following muscles? 
Iliocostalis 
Rhomboid major  
Levator scapulae  
Serratus posterior superior  
Latissimus dorsi 
During a domestic dispute, a 16-year-old boy receives a deep stab wound around the superior angle 
of the scapula near the medial border, which injures both the dorsal scapular and spinal accessory 
nerves. Such an injury could result in paralysis or weakness of which of the following muscles? 
Rhomboid major and trapezius 
Trapezius and serratus posterior superior  
Rhomboid minor and latissimus dorsi  
Splenius cervicis and sternocleidomastoid  
Levator scapulae and erector spinae 
An elderly man at a nursing home is known to have degenerative brain disease. When cerebrospinal 
f
luid (CSF) is withdrawn by lumbar puncture for further examination, which of the following 
structures is most likely penetrated by the needle? 
Ligamentum flavum 
Pia mater 
Filum terminale externum  
Posterior longitudinal ligament  
Annulus fibrosus 
A 27-year-old stuntman is thrown out of his vehicle prematurely when the car used for a particular 
scene speeds out of control. His spinal cord is crushed at the level of the fourth lumbar spinal 
segment. Which of the following structures would most likely be spared from destruction?  
Lateral horn 
Dorsal horn  
Ventral horn  
Gray matter  
Pia mater 
A patient presents with lower back pain radiating down the posterior aspect of the leg. This pain is 
MOST likely caused by compression of a nerve root at which level of the spine?{ 
=Lumbar spine 
~Thoracic spine 
~Cervical spine 
~Sacral spine 
~Coccyx 
} 
A patient is diagnosed with a retroperitoneal hematoma after a car accident. Which of the following 
organs, located in the retroperitoneal space, is MOST likely the source of the bleeding?{ 
=Kidney 
~Stomach 
~Small intestine 
~Liver 
~Gallbladder 
} 
A patient undergoes an abdominal CT scan that reveals a mass in the retroperitoneal space anterior 
to the vertebral bodies and posterior to the peritoneum. Which structure is MOST likely involved?{ 
=Abdominal aorta or inferior vena cava 
~Stomach 
~Spleen 
~Liver 
~Transverse colon 
} 
A patient presents with flank pain and hematuria (blood in the urine). Which retroperitoneal organ is 
MOST likely affected?{ 
=Kidney 
~Pancreas 
~Adrenal gland 
~Ureter 
~Ascending colon 
} 
A patient has a tumor involving the psoas major muscle. This muscle is located:{ 
=Retroperitoneally 
~Intraperitoneally 
~Within the pelvis only 
~Within the abdominal wall only 
~Within the thoracic cavity 
} 
TOPIC 15 
t.v./Topic 15 
A 68-year-old woman with uterine carcinoma undergoes surgical resection. This cancer can spread 
directly to the labia majora in lymphatics that follow which of the following structures? 
Round ligament of the uterus 
Pubic arcuate ligament  
Suspensory ligament of the ovary  
Cardinal (transverse cervical) ligament  
Suspensory ligament of the clitoris  
A 17-year-old boy suffers a traumatic groin injury during a soccer match. The urologist notices 
tenderness and swelling of the boy’s left testicle that may be produced by thrombosis in which of the 
following veins? 
Left renal vein 
Left internal pudendal vein  
Inferior vena cava  
Left inferior epigastric vein  
Left external pudendal vein 
On a busy Saturday night in Chicago, a 16-year-old boy presents to the emergency department with 
a stab wound from a knife that entered the pelvis above the piriformis muscle. Which of the 
following structures is most likely to be damaged? 
Superior gluteal nerve 
Sciatic nerve 
Internal pudendal artery  
Inferior gluteal artery  
Posterior femoral cutaneous nerve 
A 22-year-old woman receives a deep cut in the inguinal canal 1 in. lateral to the pubic tubercle. 
Which of the following ligaments is lacerated within the inguinal canal? 
Round ligament of the uterus 
Suspensory ligament of the ovary  
Ovarian ligament  
Mesosalpinx 
Rectouterine ligament 
A 29-year-old carpenter sustains severe injuries of the pelvic splanchnic nerve by a deep puncture 
wound, which has become contaminated. The injured parasympathetic preganglionic fibers in the 
splanchnic nerve are most likely to synapse in which of the following ganglia? 
Ganglia in or near the viscera or pelvic plexus 
Sympathetic chain ganglia  
Collateral ganglia  
Dorsal root ganglia  
Ganglion impar 
A 59-year-old woman comes to a local hospital for uterine cancer surgery. As the uterine 
artery passes from the internal iliac artery to the 
uterus, it crosses superior to which of the following structures that is sometimes mistakenly 
ligated during such surgery? 
Ureter 
Ovarian artery  
Ovarian ligament  
Uterine tube  
Round ligament of the uterus 
A 29-year-old woman is admitted to a hospital because the birth of her child is several days 
overdue. Tearing of the pelvic diaphragm during childbirth leads to paralysis of which of the 
following muscles? 
Levator ani 
Piriformis  
Sphincter urethrae  
Obturator internus  
Sphincter ani externus 
8. A 37-year-old small business manager receives a gunshot wound in the pelvic cavity, resulting in a 
lesion of the sacral splanchnic nerves. Which of the following nerve fibers would primarily be 
damaged? 
Preganglionic sympathetic fibers 
Postganglionic parasympathetic fibers 
Postganglionic sympathetic fibers 
Preganglionic parasympathetic fibers 
Postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic fibers 
A young couple is having difficulty conceiving a child. Their physician at a reproduction and fertility 
clinic explains to them that 
Fertilization occurs in the infundibulum or ampulla of the uterine tube 
The ovary lies within the broad ligament 
The glans clitoris is formed from the corpus spongiosum 
Erection of the penis is a sympathetic response 
Ejaculation follows parasympathetic stimulation 
A 46-year-old woman has a history of infection in her perineal region. A comprehensive examination 
reveals a tear of the superior boundary of the superficial perineal space. Which of the following 
structures would most likely be injured? 
Perineal membrane 
Pelvic diaphragm  
Colles fascia  
Superficial perineal fascia  
Deep perineal fascia  
11. A 58-year-old man is diagnosed as having a slowly growing tumor in the deep perineal space. 
Which of the following structures would most likely be injured? 
Bulbourethral glands  
Crus of penis  
Bulb of vestibule  
Spongy urethra  
Great vestibular gland 
12. An elderly man with a benign enlargement of his prostate experiences difficulty in urination, 
urinary frequency, and urgency. Which of the following lobes of the prostate gland is commonly 
involved in benign hypertrophy that obstructs the prostatic urethra? 
Middle lobe 
Anterior lobe 
Right lateral lobe 
Left lateral lobe  
Posterior lobe 
A male patient presents with difficulty initiating urination and a weak urinary stream. Digital rectal 
examination reveals an enlarged prostate gland. The prostate gland is located:{ 
=Inferior to the urinary bladder 
~Superior to the urinary bladder 
~Anterior to the rectum 
~Posterior to the rectum 
~Lateral to the rectum 
} 
A female patient presents with pelvic pain and a feeling of pressure in the pelvis. On examination, a 
prolapse of the pelvic organs is noted. Which structure is MOST likely involved in a rectocele?{ 
=Rectum 
~Urinary bladder 
~Uterus 
~Urethra 
~Vagina 
} 
A patient is diagnosed with bladder cancer. The tumor is located in the trigone of the bladder. This 
area is defined by the openings of:{ 
=The two ureters and the urethra 
~The ureters and the rectum 
~The urethra and the rectum 
~The ureters and the uterine tubes (in females) 
~The urethra and the uterine tubes (in females) 
} 
A patient undergoes a pelvic fracture that damages the pelvic floor muscles. Which muscle is MOST 
important for supporting the pelvic organs and preventing prolapse?{ 
=Levator ani 
~Piriformis 
~Obturator internus 
~Coccygeus 
~Iliopsoas 
} 
A patient experiences fecal incontinence after a difficult childbirth. Which muscle, part of the levator 
ani, is MOST likely damaged?{ 
=Puborectalis 
~Pubococcygeus 
~Iliococcygeus 
~Coccygeus 
~Piriformis 
} 
