The ability of Vibrio fischeri to convert chemical energy directly into radiant energy in bioluminescence is an example of __ at work.
Shelford's law of tolerance
Leibig's law of the minimum
*the first law of thermodynamics
the third law of thermodynamics


The ability of a competitive inhibitor to bind to an active site in an allosterically controlled enzyme is __ than the ability of a non-competitive inhibitor to bind to an active site in the same allosterically controlled enzyme.
*greater
lesser
approximately equal
half


The ability of FADH to be oxidized is __ than the ability of FAD to be oxidized.
*greater
lesser
approximately equal
half


An endergonic reaction is one that
*requires energy in order to proceed
releases energy for work
gives off much heat
looses energy


Reduction is the
loss of proton
*gain of electron
loss of electron
gain of protons


If the Keq for an enzymatic reaction is greater than 1, the reaction
will be endergonic
can not occur without the input of energy
both (a) and (b)
*none of these


An exergonic reaction is one that
requires energy to proceed
*releases energy for work
gives off much heat
looses energy


If the free energy change (ΔG) in a reaction is a negative value, it indicates that the
*reaction releases energy
reaction absorbs energy
reaction is in negative direction
reaction is in positive direction


To a living organism, which of the following has the greatest amount of available energy per molecule?
*ATP
ADP
AMP
H2O


Which of the following is the best evidence for the lock and key theory of enzyme action?
*Compounds similar in structure to the substrate inhibit enzyme activity
Enzymes are found in living organisms and speed up certain reactions
Enzymes speed up reactions by definite amounts
Enzymes determine the direction of a reaction


In the reaction, C6H12O6* 6O2 → 6CO2 * 6H2O * energy, which component is being oxidized?
*C6H12O6
O2
CO2
H2O


The fact that β-oxidation of fatty acids, occurs in the mitochondria whereas fatty acid synthesis occurs in the cytoplasmic matrix, is an example of regulation of enzymatic activity by the __ mechanism.
compartmentation
induction
competitive inhibition
*repression


In the reaction, C6H12O6 * 6O2 → 6CO2 * 6H2O * energy, which component is being reduced?
*O2
CO2
H2O
Energy


The affinity of an enzyme for its substrate, when the enzyme has a Km of 0.50 M will be __ than the affinity of an enzyme for its substrate when the enzyme has a Km of 0.05 M.
greater
*lesser
approximately equal
half


Anthranilate synthase, the first enzyme of tryptophan biosynthesis after the branch point shows feedback inhibition and repression due to
*L-tryptophan
D-L-tryptophan hydantoin
L-serine
pyruvate


A substrate binds to its enzyme at a location called the __ site.
coenzyme
substrate
*active
polypeptide


Hydrogen and oxygen release enormous amounts of energy when they reactYet, hydrogen and oxygen can be mixed together in a balloon and nothing will happenWhy?
*Competitive inhibitors are blocking the reaction from occurring in the active site
There must be contaminating elements in the balloon that prohibit the reaction from occurring
The energy of activation to form the transition-state complex is too high to allow the reaction to occur without assistance
all of the above


Adenosine triphosphate is a type of
fatty acid
amino acid
*nucleotide
Steroid


An enzyme that is always produced, regardless of the presence of substrates or the end products, is called
*a constitutive enzyme
an isoenzyme
a repressible enzyme
an allosteric enzyme


About 7.3 kcal/mole are released when
*glucose is converted to CO2 and H2O
NAD* is reduced to NADH
ATP hydrolysis is coupled to sucrose synthesis
the terminal phosphate bond of ATP is broken by hydrolysis



Gram stain of CSF sediment from a patient with meningitis contains Gram-negative cocci, many in pairs. Which organism below is most likely?
Streptococcus pneumoniae
*Neisseria meningitidis
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Escherichia coli


The carrier site in humans for pathogenic Neisseria meningitidis is the
Conjunctiva
*nasopharynx
blood
meninges


The main carrier site on the human body for strains of potentially pathogenic Neisseria meningitidis is the
nasal membranes
*throat (posterior nasopharynx)
gastrointestinal tract
vagina


The main carrier site on the human body for strains of potentially pathogenic Neisseria meningitidis is the
nasal membranes
*throat (posterior nasopharynx)
gastrointestinal tract
vagina


In serum broth Meningococci produce:
No visible changes
All answers are correct
There is no correct answer
*Turbidity and a sediment at the bottom of the test tube


Meningococci were described by:
Pasteur
Bilroth
Loeffler
*Weichselbaum


Condition of Meningococci cultivation  for diagnosis of epidemic meningitis:
The  inoculated culture is incubated at 22 °C and in conditions of elevated CO2 contents
The  inoculated culture is incubated at 37 °C and in conditions of elevated O2 contents
The  inoculated culture is incubated at 37 °C
*The  inoculated culture is incubated at 37 °C and in conditions of elevated CO2 contents


Neisseria meningitidis is classified with _____.
proteobacteria
chlamydias
cyanobacteria
*gram-negative bacteria


Show fermentative properties of Meningococci:
do not liquefy gelatin
cause no change in milk
ferment maltose with acid formation
*ferment glucose and maltose with acid formation


The meningococcus is an aerobe or facultative anaerobe and does not grow on common media. It grows readily at pH 7.2-7.4 on media to which _________ has been added.
Glucose
Bile
Urine
*Serum


The Neisseria gonorrhoeae does not grow on common media. It grows readily on media to which _________ has been added.
Glucose
Mannitol
Yolk
*Ascitic fluid


Which of the following statements about gonorrhea is true?
Men are frequently asymptomatic carriers.
Bacteremia is common..
Penicillins are no longer recommended for treatment.
*Gonococci are within leucocytes in a sample


Which of the following is NOT true of Neisseria gonorrhea?
Is a mucosal pathogen
*Requires a vaginal pH of 5 or more to grow
Can disseminate in the immunosuppressed
Gram-negative diplococci


Who did discover gonococci first?
Pasteur
Koch
Loeffler
*Neisser


The gonococcus possesses low biochemical activity and no proteolytic activity. It ferments only _____________  with acid formation
Maltose
Mannitol
All answers are correct
*Glucose


The Gonococci do not grow on common media. They grow readily at pH 7.2-7.4 on media to which _________ has been added.
Glucose
Bile
No correct answer
*Serum


The causative agent of gonorrhea is
Neisseria meningitidis
Treponema pallidum
gonorrhea mycobacterium
*Neisseria gonorrhea


Pili increase the virulence in which of the following?
Treponema pallidum
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
Neisseria meningitidis
*Neisseria gonorrhea


Gonococcus is pathogenic for:
Rabbits
Mice
Rats
*No correct  answer


The Gonococci are pathogenic for:
Rabbit
Mice
Rat
*Human



The class of immunoglobulins which can cross the placenta is
IgM
*IgG
IgA
IgD


Self reactive antibodies are not found in significant concentration in normal serum because
it is impossible to generate a self-reactive antibody
self reactive B cells are killed by CD8 T cells
*B cells that are stimulated via their surface bound antibody in the absence of T cell help to commit suicide
self reactive B cells switch to IgA which is all secreted and not present in serum


Simulation of which of the following will lead to appearance of first antibody to appear following stimulation by an antigen?
*IgM
IgA
IgE
IgG


Antigen binding sites of an immunoglobulin are located in
light chain alone
heavy chain alone
Fc region of the antibody
*Fab regions of the antibody


Which of the following mediates Type I hypersensitivity reaction?
*IgE
IgG
IgM
IgD


Which of the following theory of antibody production is most widely accepted?
Side chain theory
*Clonal selection theory
Direct template theory
Indirect template theory


Which is the most efficient complement fixing class of antibody?
IgE
IgA
*IgM
IgG


The class of immunoglobulin, most abundant in body is
IgD
IgE
*IgG
IgM


Which is not a function of IgG?
Major antibody in serum
*First antibody type produced against an antigen during the primary antibody response
Activates or fixes complement
Involved in opsonization


J chain is present in
IgA
IgM
*Both (a) and (b)
IgE


Heat-labile class of immunoglobulins include
IgA
*IgE
IgG
IgM


Which of the following (s) is/are function (s) of Fc fragment of IgG?
It determines catabolic rate
It binds complement
It is related to passage of IgG across the placental barrier
*All of these


Which of the following is the phylogenetically oldest immunoglobulin?
IgE
*IgM
IgG
All are similar


The secretary component of sIgA is
made by plasma cells that secrete dimeric IgA
added to dimeric IgA by the M cell
*formed by cleavage of an epithelial cell receptor used to transport the dimeric IgA across the epithelial cell
made by T cells


Anti-Rh antibodies are
*IgG type
IgA type
IgE type
IgD type


Which is not a function of IgA?
Protect mucosal surfaces
*Fix complement
Protect eyes
Agglutinate antigen


For example of ......... is VDRL test
Tube test
Ring test
*Slide test
none of these


Inner which of the following case a large lattice is formed?
Antibody is in excess
*Antigens and antibodies are in optimal proportion
Antigen is in excess
None of these


precipitate reaction is relatively less sensitive for the detection of
antigens
antigen-antibody complexes
*antibodies
complement


more sensitive than precipitation for the detection of ..........is Agglutination reaction
*antigens
antibodies
complement
antigen-antibody complexes



Which of the following lymphokine(s) is secreted by delayed-type-hypersensitivity cells?
Macrophage stimulating factor
Migration inhibiting factor
Macrophage activating factor
*All of the above


Which of the following is an example of autoimmune disease?
Rheumatoid arthritis
Systemic lupus erythematosus
Polyarteritis nodosa
*All of the above


Immunosuppressive agent(s) is/are
Cyclosporine
Methotrexate
Anti-lymphocytic serum
*All of these


Induction of tolerance mechanism(s) is/are
suppression
clonal deletion
clonal anergy
*all of these


Lens antigens of the eye are
cross-reacting antigens
*sequestrated antigens
neoantigens
none of these


Negative phase is observed in
*secondary humoral response
primary humoral response
both (a) and (b)
none of the above


Method(s) that can be used to detect CMI is/are
migration inhibition
target cell destruction factor test
skin test for delayed hypersensitivity
*all of the above


In which of the following cell mediated immunity (CMI) participates?
Delayed hypersensitivity reaction
Graft versus host reaction
Allograft rejection
*All of the above


Overactivity of Th cells may result into
*autoimmunity
optimal antibody response
optimal cell-mediated response
none of the above


Found of the following is correct for isoantigens?
They are antigens found in all members of different species
*They are antigens found in some members of a species
They are antigens found in all members of a species
They are antigens found in some members of different species


Found of the following is correct for CD8 T cells?
CD8 T cells only recognize virus-infected cells
CD8 T cell receptor recognizes epitopes that are also commonly recognized by B cells
In the thymus, CD8 T cells undergo positive selection only, whereas CD4 T cells undergo negative selection only
*CD8 T cells can kill individual virus-infected cells in a contact dependent fashion


Found of the following expresses CD3 surface antigen?
Granulocytes
*T cells
Monocytes
B cells


Found of the following is correct for isoantigens?
They are antigens found in all members of different species
*They are antigens found in some members of a species
They are antigens found in all members of a species
They are antigens found in some members of different species


Found of the following is correct for CD8 T cells?
CD8 T cells only recognize virus-infected cells
CD8 T cell receptor recognizes epitopes that are also commonly recognized by B cells
In the thymus, CD8 T cells undergo positive selection only, whereas CD4 T cells undergo negative selection only
*CD8 T cells can kill individual virus-infected cells in a contact dependent fashion


Found is not an antigen-presenting cell (or APC)?
B cell
*Polymorphonuclear leukocyte (or PMN)
Dendritic cell
All of the above


Found of the following proteins would not need localization signal?
A nuclear protein
*A cytosolic protein
A protein bound to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane
A cell surface protein


Found of the following(s) is/are the determinants of antigenicity?
Chemical nature
Size of the antigen
Foreignness
*All of these


Found of the following is correct?
All T Cells are CD4*
An epitope can have multiple antigens
*T Cell receptors are generated by random assortment of gene cassettes
MHC Class II molecules are generated by random assortment of gene cassettes


Found of the following statements is false regarding B cells?
B cells can undergo class switching and produce a different antibody type
*B one marrow stem cells migrate to the thymus and develop into B cells
B cells synthesize antibodies and put them on their cell surface
B cells that recognize high concentrations of antigens (self) in the absence of other signals undergo apoptosis in the bone marrow


role of the M cell is to
trap virus in mucus and prevent entry
induce apoptosis in virus-infected small intestinal epithelia cells
*pass bacteria or virus to underlying macrophages for processing and presentation of antigen
they use their cilia to propel mucus out of the small intestine



In heat oven at 160 C Petry palates were sterilized. What test-microbe is it possible to use for sterilization control?
Bacillus cereus
Clostridium perfringens
Clostridium difficile
*Bacillus subtilis


Indicate the composition of liquid Hiss media
1 % peptone water, different carbohydrates (glucose, maltose, lactose, saccharose, Mannitol and other), an indicator bromthymol dark blue
1 % peptone water, different carbohydrates (glucose, maltose, lactose, saccharose, Mannitol and other), an indicator eosin
1 % peptone water, different carbohydrates (glucose, maltose, lactose, saccharose, Mannitol and other), an indicator is methylene blue
*1 % peptone water, different carbohydrates (glucose, maltose, lactose, saccharose, mannitol and other), indicator of Andrede


Which microorganisms can be used for quality control of sterilization by filtration?
Escherichia coli
Salmonella typhi
Clostridium perfringens
*Serratia mаrcescens


What colour does non-inoculated Olkenitsky medium have?
bright red
pink
*yellow
greenish


What colour does noninoculated Ressel’s medium have?
bright red
greenish
violet
*yellow


What is advantage of Koch, Drigalsky and streak techniques above the Pasteur method?
Enable to study biochemical properties of bacteria
Enable to study antigen properties of bacteria
Enable to obtain  a pure culture
*Enable to obtain the isolated colonies


What is an essence of Koch technique for isolation of pure cultures?
Use of liquid nutrient media for obtaining the isolated colonies
Use of blood agar for examination of hemolysines types
Use of solid nutrient media for examination of antibiotics susceptibility
*Use of solid nutrient media (gelatin) for obtaining the isolated colonies


What is an essence of Pasteur technique for isolation of pure cultures?
Dilution of tested material in gelatin
Dilution of tested material  in MPA
Dilution of tested material in the AGV nutrient medium
*Dilution of tested material in a liquid nutrient medium


The primary use of Koch's postulates is to
clearly identify and characterize a particular microorganism.
isolate microorganisms from diseased animals.
develop vaccines for specific diseases.
*demonstrate that a disease is caused by a microorganism.


Which of the following is NOT part of Koch's postulates?
the microorganism is never found in healthy animals.
the microorganisms is always found in diseased animals.
the microorganism must cause disease in healthy animals.
*the microorganism must secrete a toxin in culture.


At what advantage of Koch method in comparing Pasteur one for isolation of pure cultures?
Enables  to examine antibiotics susceptibility
Enables to examine biochemical properties of microbes
Enables to examine antigen properties of microbes
*Enables to obtain the isolated colonies


Anaerobic microorganisms may be isolated by:
Fortner method
Shukevich method
Pasteur method
*Veynberg method


For mechanical separation of bacteria is not used such method:
Pasteur serial dilution
Koch method
Drigalsky method
*Leffler method


What is advantage of Koch, Drigalsky and streak techniques above the Pasteur method?
Enable to study biochemical properties of bacteria
Enable to study antigen properties of bacteria
Enable to obtain  a pure culture
*Enable to obtain the isolated colonies


What is an essence of ІV stage of isolation of pure culture of anaerobic bacteria?
Inoculation of colonies on the proper nutrient medium
Examination of tinctorial properties of bacteria
Examination of serologic features of bacteria which form colonies by precipitation test
*Checking the culture purity and its identification


Water testing relies on the detection of certain indicator organisms known as
acid-fast bacteria
bacteroids
*coliforms
dinoflagellates


For most bacteria, the optimum pH for growth lies between
*6.5-7.5
3.5-4.5
4.5-5.5
5.5-6.5


Semi-solid media, prepared with agar at concentrations of 0.5% or less are useful for the cultivation of
*Microaerophillic bacteria
Lactobacilli
E.coli
all of these


The isolation of the gonorrhoea - causing organisms, Neisseria gonorrhoeae,from a clinical specimen is facilitated by the use of media containing
cellulose
*certain antibiotics
succinate
none of these


The archaebacterium Halobacterium, an extreme halophile, and Sulfolobus, a thermoacidophile, can be cultured in the presence of antibiotics such as streptomycin and chloramphenicol because
they contain ether-linked isoprenoids in their plasma membrane
*they lack murein in their cell wall
they contain 80S, as opposed to 70S, ribosomes
all of the above



Which of the following virus is already detectable after infections?
Hepatitis B virus
*Herpes simplex virus
Varicella-zoster virus
Cytomegalovirus


Which of the following viruses has been associated with human cancer?
Hepatitis C virus
Hepatitis B virus
*All of them
Herpes simplex virus type 2


The envelope of which of the following viruses is derived from the  cell membrane?
Paramyxoviruses
Retroviruses
Orthomyxoviruses
*Herpesviruses


Which of the following viruses   of infected cells?
*Hepatitis B virus
Human T cell lymphotronic virus type I
Epstein-Barr virus
All of these


Which of the following viruses belong/s to family caliciviridae?
Hepatitis B virus
Hepatitis D virus
*Hepatitis E virus
All of these


Enzyme neuraminidase is carried by which of the following viruses?
Human immunodeficiency virus
Epstein-Barr virus
*Influenza virus
Adenovirus


Which of the following virus is susceptible to chloroform?
Herpes
Influenza
Measles
*All of these


Which of the following virus is always detectable after infections?
Hepatitis B virus
*Herpes simplex virus
Varicella-zoster virus
Cytomegalovirus


Which of the following hepatitis viruses is not RNA virus?
*Hepatitis A virus
Hepatitis B virus
Hepatitis E virus
Hepatitis G virus


Which of the following nucleic acid is present in hepatitis B virus?
*dsDNA
ssRNA
ssDNA
dsRNA


The agent representing an isolate of hepatitis G virus is
GBA-A
GBV-B
*GBV-C
none of these


Hepatitis G virus belongs to the family
Caliciviridae
Flaviviridae
*Hepadnaviridae
Coronaviridae


Transmission of hepatitis G virus is
Parenterally
Sexually
*Both (a) and (b)
None of these


Which of the following specimens contain/s hepatitis B virus in an infected person?
Blood
Semen
Saliva
*All of these


Vertical transmission may be seen in
Hepatitis B virus
Hepatitis C virus
Hepatitis D virus
*All of these


Hepatocellular carcinoma (Hepatoma) may be caused by
Hepatitis A virus
Hepatitis C virus
*Both (a) and (b)
None of these


The defective satellite virus is
hepatitis B
hepatitis C
*hepatitis D
hepatitis A


All of the following viruses are enveloped except
*Hepatitis A virus
Hepatitis B virus
Hepatitis C virus
Hepatitis D virus


The viruses, which is/are transmitted by parenteral and sexual routes is/are
Hepatitis B virus
Hepatitis C virus
Hepatitis G virus
*All of these


Which of the following antigenic types of hepatitis B virus is present in the envelope?
*HbsAg
HBcAg
HBeAg
HBxAg
