t.s.Mavzu 7

Genes localized on one chromosome:
Form a gene linkage group 
Called unlinked
Inherited independently of each other 
Give different combinations  

Indicate the main provisions of the chromosomal theory of heredity? 
The frequency of crossing over between chromosomes is directly proportional to the distance between genes
Crossing over can occur between non-homologous chromosomes 
The number of linkage groups is equal to the diploid set of chromosomes 
Crossing over is not observed in male mammals 

Linkage between genes can be:
Full or incomplete
Incomplete, not providing discrepancies
Full, but crossing over
Complete, there is a discrepancy           

Hemophilia is a disease that has:
X -linked recessive inheritance
Autosomal recessive mode of inheritance
Autosomal dominant type of inheritance
Y -linked inheritance

Enamel hypoplasia is inherited as a sex-linked dominant trait. In a family where both parents suffer from this anomaly, a son was born with normal teeth. What is the probability that the next child will also have healthy teeth?
50% boys
50% girls
50% of all children
all children

The holandric trait is:
Hypertrichosis
Blonde hair
Hemophilia
Polydactyly

Hypertrichosis (hair growth along the edge of the ear) is inherited as a trait linked to the Y chromosome. What is the probability of having a child with this anomaly in a family where the father suffers from hypertrichosis?
100% boys
50% boys
50% girls
All children

Gender-dependent signs:
Traits determined by autosomal genes in men and women, but these traits appear more often in one sex than the other
Traits determined by autosomal genes in women
Traits are determined by genes that are located on the X and Y chromosomes
Polygenic traits

In what units is crossing over frequency measured?
In percentages
In nanometers
In centimeters
In the Morganids

If a disease (sign) is inherited through the male line from generation to generation from a father to all his sons, then this is a sign:
Y -linked type of inheritance
X-linked recessive inheritance
X-linked dominant type of inheritance
Autosomal recessive type of inheritance

It is known that gene linkage is not absolute, since it is disrupted as a result of:
Crossing over during meiosis
Pleiotropy
Non-allelic gene interactions
Independent chromosome segregation during meiosis

Which of the following is a holandric trait?
Hypertrichosis
Colorblindness
Polydactyly
Blonde hair

What are the names of the characteristics predetermined by the genes that are located on the X and Y chromosomes?
Glued to the floor
Dominant
holandric
Gender dependent

What is the number of gene linkage groups in the organisms of each biological species?
Haploid set of chromosomes
Number of pairs of non-allelic genes
Number of sex chromosomes
Diploid set of chromosomes

Who established the linked inheritance of genes localized in one pair of homologous chromosomes?
T. Morgan
H. Koran
G. de Vries
V. Johansen

Unit of distance between genes:
Morganida
Centimeter
Nanometer
Angstrom

The father is color blind, and the mother is heterozygous for a gene that predetermines normal color perception. With what genotypes should we expect offspring?
XdXd
XDXD
XDXd
Dd

The father has hemophilia, and the mother is homozygous for a gene that determines normal blood clotting. With what genotypes should we expect offspring?
XHXh
ХНХН
XhXh
XhY

Indicate a gender-linked human characteristic:
Hemophilia
Polydactyly
Hair color
Color of the skin

Ichthyosis is observed in the family pedigree. This symptom occurs in all generations only in men. What type of inheritance of the trait?
Linked to the Y chromosome
Dominant, linked to the X chromosome
Autosomal recessive
Recessive, linked to the X chromosome
