t.s. Mavzu 2

Characteristic features of viruses: 
They do not have a cellular structure - non-cellular life forms. Genetic the material is represented by a DNA or RNA molecule
They are cellular organisms
Among them there are both parasitic forms and saprophytes.
The genetic material is represented only by the DNA molecule (circular chromosome)

Find the structural features of prokaryotes:
They do not have a typical nucleus, the chromosome (genophore) is ring-shaped
Cellular organelles are well defined
Rod-shaped chromosomes, i.e. not circular 
Among them there are both unicellular and multicellular forms

Find the structural features of eukaryotes:
The nucleus is formed and consists of: nuclear membrane, karyoplasm, nucleolus and chromatin (chromosomes), cellular organelles are well defined
The chromosome (genophore) has a ring shape             
There are mesosomes that perform the functions of mitochondria and plastids           
Of the organelles, only ribosomes are present

What are the characteristic features of lysosomes?
There are three groups of these organelles: primary, secondary and cytolysomes (autophagosomes or cytolysosomes)
Lysosomes break down only those substances that enter the cell
Lysosomes are structures visible even to the naked eye
Always located near the cell nucleus

What are the characteristic features of the Golgi apparatus?
The main function is concentration, dehydration and compaction of intracellular secretion products
It consists of a system of tubes, a shell, which is three-layered, about 5 nm thick
The Krebs cycle occurs in the membranes of the Golgi complex.
Participates in mitotic cell division

Cell organelles of general importance:
Mitochondria. Ribosome. Golgi complex
Neurofibrils. Myofibrils. Ribosome
Tonofibrils. Cilia Golgi complex
Cilia. Flagella. Mitochondria

Specify cell organelles of special significance:
Neurofibrils. Myofibrils. Tonofibrils
Cilia. Flagella. Mitochondria
Golgi complex. Lysosome. Centrosome
Flagella. Mitochondria. Ribosome

Indicate the correct levels of organization of living things?
Organismal
Atmospheric
Soil
Real

Identify the mechanical part of a microscope?
Screws (macro, micro)
Condenser
Diaphragm
Mirror

Identify the components of the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell?
Nuclear envelope. Nuclear juice (karyolymph). Nucleoli (one or two). Chromosomes
Nucleoli (one or two). Chromosomes. DNA or RNA
Chromosomes. DNA or RNA. Nucleoid. Genophore
Nuclear envelope. Nuclear juice (karyolymph). Nucleoid. Microtubules

Single membrane organelles:
Endoplasmic reticulum
Microtubules
Microfibrils
Centrioles

Identify the substances contained in the mitochondrial matrix:
DNA and RNA. Enzymes that ensure protein biosynthesis . Ribosomes
Enzymes involved in the processes of transcription and translation. Enzymes providing chemosynthesis
Microfibrils. Microtubules
Microtubules. A system of enzymes that ensures the process of photosynthesis

Determine what functions the endoplasmic reticulum performs?
Performs a transport function, linking cell structures into a single whole
Carries out the process of glycolysis
Primary and secondary lysosomes are formed
Breaks down foreign substances that have entered cells  

Characteristic features of the nuclear membrane:
There is a perinuclear space between the membranes
Formed by a three-layer membrane
The membrane is made up of proteins and lipids
Pores are formed by nuclear complexes

Indicate the representatives of prokaryotes:
Bacteria. Blue-green algae
Bacteriophages. Viruses
Unicellular algae
Multicellular algae

The agranular endoplasmic reticulum performs the function:
Lipid synthesis
Lysosome formation
ATP synthesis
Support

A decrease in the level of albumin and fibrinogen was detected in the patient's blood. A decrease in the activity of which liver cell organelles causes this phenomenon?
Granular EPS
Agranular EPS
Mitochondria
Golgi complex

What is the name for the protrusion of the cell membrane into the cytoplasm of prokaryotic cells, on which ATP is synthesized?
Mesosomes
Lysosomes
Mitochondria
Desmosomes

The cell contains single-membrane spherical organelles 0.2 - 1 µm in size, containing proteolytic enzymes. Their formation is associated with the Golgi apparatus. What are these organelles?
Lysosome
Mitochondria
Plastids
Ribosomes

In a human cell, the ribosomes, which are located on the membranes of the granular endoplasmic reticulum, receive immature mRNA containing both exonic and intronic regions. This structure of mRNA is due to the absence of:
Processing
Elongation
Transcriptions
Replications

In eukaryotes:
There is a core
No core
No vacuoles
Simple cell division, no mitosis

t.s./ Mavzu 3

What function does not belong to the glycocalyx?
Synthesis of ATP and proteins
Intercellular interaction
Parietal digestion
Intercellular contacts

What are primary chromosome constrictions?
Centromeres
Telomeres
Nucleosomes
Shoulders

What ensures the transmission of hereditary information in viruses?
DNA
Protein
Gistone
ATP

What is the chemical composition of biological membranes?
Lipids, proteins, carbohydrates
RNA, DNA, carbohydrates, water
DNA, proteins, carbohydrates
DNA, RNA, histone proteins

What is the process of growing a polypeptide chain during transcription called?
Splicing
Initiation
Processing
Elongation

Is this a genephore?
DNA strand
ATP chain
Membrane
Histone protein

A section of DNA that contains information about the synthesis of one protein is called?
Codon
Recon
Cistron
Genome

The smallest section of the cistron, a change in which can lead to a mutation, is called:
Recon
Codon
Mouton
Cistron

The smallest section of a cistron that does not divide by recombination is called?
Recon
Mouton
Codon
Cistron

Non-informative sections of structural genes that do not encode an amino acid are:
Recons
Exons
Moutons
Introns

Regulatory genes?
Control and regulate the process of protein biosynthesis
Have a regulatory or enhancing effect on structural genes
Carry information about the structure of certain polypeptides
Contain a large number of repeating nucleotide groups

The specificity of the genetic code is manifested in the fact that:
Each individual codon triplet codes for only one specific amino acid
The genetic code is unique for all organisms
No nitrogenous base from one codon is ever included in another
An amino acid can be encoded by more than one triplet of nucleotides

What is the formation of an RNA molecule on a DNA template?
Transcription
Replication
Broadcast
Transduction

Indicate what substances are included in one nucleotide?
Nitrogenous base, pentose, phosphate acid residue
Nitrogenous base, amino acid, phosphate acid residue
Nitrogen base, hexose, phosphate acid residue
Amino group, pentose, phosphate acid residue

How many ATP molecules are formed at the first stage of energy metabolism:
2
4
6
36

What is the duplication of DNA involving the enzyme DNA polymerase called?
Replication
Transcription
Broadcast
Processing

Genetic code -
A unified system for recording genetic information in a DNA molecule in the form of a sequential arrangement of nucleotides in an m-RNA molecule
A triplet defining the location of one amino acid in a synthesized protein
A triplet in a tRNA molecule that determines the location of one amino acid in the protein being synthesized
A triplet in an rRNA molecule that determines the location of one amino acid in the synthesized protein
