t.s./mavzu 23

What insects carry the causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis?
M oscytes 
flies
Lice
Woodlice

The patient was diagnosed with African sleeping sickness. What insect, biting a patient, could transmit to him the causative agent of this disease?
Fly Tsetse 
Housefly
Wohlfart fly
Mosquito

During a medical examination, some patients had 2-3 mm gray insects on their heads. With deep cutouts on the sides of the body. What are these ectoparasites?
Pediculus humanus capitis
Xenopsylla cheopis
Cimex lectularius
Phthirus pubis

During a medical examination, insects measuring 1-1.5 mm in size, with a wide body, were identified under the patient's armpits, on the pubic eminence and eyelids. Name these ectoparasites:
Phthirus pubis
Xenopsylla cheopis
Cimex lectularius
Pediculus humanus capitis

Which insects are specific carriers of papatachia fever:
Mosquitoes
Mosquitoes of the genus Aedes
Mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles
Mosquitoes of the genus Culex

Specify the disease that is caused by the larvae of dipteran insects: 
Miaz
M alaria
African sleeping sickness
Leishmaniasis 

Name the specific vector of leishmaniasis:
Phlebotomus papatasii
Wohlfahrtia magnifica
Stomoxys calcitrans
Musca domestica

t.s./mavzu 24

First aid for poisoning with hymenoptera venom:
Remove the sting, treat the sting site with disinfectants. 
Suck out the poison, treat the sting site with disinfectants.
Apply a warm, tight bandage to the sting site
Leave the sting, treat the sting site with disinfectants

First aid for snake poisoning:
Suck out the poison and treat the bite site with disinfectants.
Cauterize the bite site and place the victim in the shade.
Cauterize and treat the bite site with disinfectants
Apply a tight bandage to the bite site and transport in any position

Picture of poisoning with toadstool:
Death due to cardiovascular and liver failure
Hemolysis of red blood cells
Intestinal obstruction
Hyperemia and swelling of the affected area, skin necrosis

Picture of red fly agaric poisoning:
Increased temperature, tachycardia
Labored breathing
Hallucinations and seizures
Intestinal obstruction
 
Poppy poisoning clinic:
Allergic reactions, decreased blood pressure
Death from cardiac arrest
Retention of urination and defecation
Hemolysis of red blood cells

Cannabis poisoning clinic:
State of intoxication, speech and motor agitation, vivid hallucinations
Bloody diarrhea
Bradycardia, hypotension, diarrhea
Hyperemia and swelling of the affected area, skin necrosis

Picture of wild rosemary poisoning:
Decreased blood pressure, tachycardia
Sore throat
Increased urination and cramps
Labored breathing
