t.s./mavzu 11

Mother and father are phenotypically healthy. They had a sick child, in whose urine and blood phenylpyruvic acid was found. Based on this, phenylketonuria was diagnosed. What is the type of inheritance of this disease?
Autosomal recessive
Autosomal dominant
Recessive, linked to the X chromosome
Linked to the Y chromosome

An 18-year-old girl consulted a doctor with complaints of lack of menstruation. The examination revealed the following signs: height 140 cm, short neck with characteristic folds of skin (“sphinx neck”), broad shoulders, narrow pelvis, absence of secondary sexual characteristics, underdevelopment of the ovaries. What preliminary diagnosis can be made?
Shereshevsky-Turner syndrome
Patau syndrome
Morris syndrome
Klinefelter syndrome

Achondroplasia (hereditary dwarfism) is inherited as a dominant autosomal trait. What is the probability of having healthy children from healthy parents?
100%
0%
50%
25%

Phenotypically healthy parents gave birth to a child with alkaptonuria (an autosomal recessive type of inheritance). What are the genotypes of women and men?
Aa and Aa
AA and Aa
AA and AA
Aa and aa

The autosomal dominant type of inheritance of the disease is characterized by the following situation:
The disease is transmitted from parents to children in every generation
The disease occurs only in males of the family
The disease is transmitted horizontally through the family tree
The disease occurs only in women of the family

Enzymopathies belong to metabolic diseases caused by enzyme defects. Disorders of amino acid metabolism include:
Albinism
Vitamin D -resistant rickets
Cystic fibrosis
Hemophilia

Which gene disease is characterized by premature aging of the body that occurs at the age of 6-7 years and leads to the death of patients from cardiovascular diseases before the age of 10?
Progeria
Galactosemia
Phenylketonuria
Tay-Sachs disease

A sick child has a disorder of lipid metabolism, accompanied by an increase in the concentration of lipids in the blood serum and the deposition of these substances in nerve cells. There are dysfunctions of the higher nervous system. What hereditary disease should we think about in this case?
Tay-Sachs disease
Edwards syndrome
Marfan syndrome
Phenylketonuria
