Test Questions Topic 2
1. Indicate the representatives of prokaryotes:
*a. Bacteria. Blue-green algae
b. Unicellular algae
c. Multicellular algae
d. Bacteriophages. Viruses
2. Specify cell organelles of special significance:
*a. Neurofibrils. Myofibrils. Tonofibrils
b. Golgi complex. Lysosome. Centrosome
c. Flagella. Mitochondria. Ribosome
d. Cilia. Flagella. Mitochondria
3. Characteristic features of the nuclear membrane:
a. The membrane is made up of proteins and lipids
*b. There is a perinuclear space between the membranes
c. Formed by a three-layer membrane
d. Pores are formed by nuclear complexes
4. Identify the components of the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell?
*a. Nuclear envelope. Nuclear juice (karyolymph). Nucleoli (one or two). Chromosomes
b. Nuclear envelope. Nuclear juice (karyolymph). Nucleoid. Microtubules
c. Chromosomes. DNA or RNA. Nucleoid. Genophore
d. Nucleoli (one or two). Chromosomes. DNA or RNA
5. Identify the substances contained in the mitochondrial matrix:
a. Microfibrils. Microtubules
b. Enzymes involved in the processes of transcription and translation. Enzymes providing chemosynthesis
c. Microtubules. A system of enzymes that ensures the process of photosynthesis
*d. DNA and RNA. Enzymes that ensure protein biosynthesis . Ribosomes
6. Single membrane organelles:
a. Microtubules
b. Centrioles
*c. Endoplasmic reticulum
d. Microfibrils
7. What are the characteristic features of lysosomes?
a. Lysosomes break down only those substances that enter the cell
*b. There are three groups of these organelles: primary, secondary and cytolysomes (autophagosomes or cytolysosomes)
c. Always located near the cell nucleus
d. Lysosomes are structures visible even to the naked eye
8. Find the structural features of eukaryotes:
a. Of the organelles, only ribosomes are present
b. There are mesosomes that perform the functions of mitochondria and plastids
c. The chromosome (genophore) has a ring shape
*d. The nucleus is formed and consists of: nuclear membrane, karyoplasm, nucleolus and chromatin (chromosomes), cellular organelles are well defined
9. Find the structural features of prokaryotes:
a. Rod-shaped chromosomes, i.e. not circular
b. Cellular organelles are well defined
c. Among them there are both unicellular and multicellular forms
*d. They do not have a typical nucleus, the chromosome (genophore) is ring-shaped
10. In a human cell, the ribosomes, which are located on the membranes of the granular endoplasmic reticulum, receive immature mRNA containing both exonic and intronic regions. This structure of mRNA is due to the absence of:
a. Elongation
b. Replications
c. Transcriptions
*d. Processing
11. Identify the mechanical part of a microscope?
a. Mirror
b. Condenser
c. Diaphragm
*d. Screws (macro, micro)
12. Determine what functions the endoplasmic reticulum performs?
a. Primary and secondary lysosomes are formed
b. Breaks down foreign substances that have entered cells
c. Carries out the process of glycolysis
*d. Performs a transport function, linking cell structures into a single whole
13. Cell organelles of general importance:
a. Tonofibrils. Cilia. Golgi complex
*b. Mitochondria. Ribosome. Golgi complex
c. Cilia. Flagella. Mitochondria
d. Neurofibrils. Myofibrils. Ribosome
14. In eukaryotes:
a. No core
*b. There is a core
c. Simple cell division, no mitosis
d. No vacuoles
15. What are the characteristic features of the Golgi apparatus?
*a. The main function is concentration, dehydration and compaction of intracellular secretion products
b. The Krebs cycle occurs in the membranes of the Golgi complex.
c. It consists of a system of tubes, a shell, which is three-layered, about 5 nm thick
d. Participates in mitotic cell division
16. The cell contains single-membrane spherical organelles 0.2 - 1 μm in size, containing proteolytic enzymes. Their formation is associated with the Golgi apparatus. What are these organelles?
a. Mitochondria
*b. Lysosome
c. Plastids
d. Ribosomes
17. What is the name for the protrusion of the cell membrane into the cytoplasm of prokaryotic cells, on which ATP is synthesized?
a. Mitochondria
b. Lysosomes
*c. Mesosomes
d. Desmosomes
18. Indicate the correct levels of organization of living things?
a. Soil
*b. Organismal
c. Real
d. Atmospheric
19. A decrease in the level of albumin and fibrinogen was detected in the patient's blood. A decrease in the activity of which liver cell organelles causes this phenomenon?
a. Agranular EPS
*b. Granular EPS
c. Mitochondria
d. Golgi complex
20. The agranular endoplasmic reticulum performs the function:
a. ATP synthesis
*b. Lipid synthesis
c. Support
d. Lysosome formation
21. Characteristic features of viruses:
a. They are cellular organisms
b. The genetic material is represented only by the DNA molecule (circular chromosome)
c. Among them there are both parasitic forms and saprophytes
*d. They do not have a cellular structure - non-cellular life forms. Genetic the material is represented by a DNA or RNA molecule
